Corlis Rath Biographical information Homeworld Sinsara Descriptive information Species Sinsaran Gender Male Pronouns He/him Eye color Yellow Skin color Light Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) The Banished I've never even met him before. I don't know why he's seeking vengeance.
―Kyrel Vastari about Corlis Rath Corlis Rath , also known as Davros Hex , was a Sinsaran male who lived during the late Stellar Dominion Era and tried to assassinate The Eternal Flow Adept Kyrel Vastari Biography Meeting Kyrel Vastari Davros Hex was a Sinsaran male individual from the world Sinsara , who lived during the late Stellar Dominion Era . He was associated with a bandit group on Sinsara known as the Behru , or later as "The Banished". After the Behru had raided the local villages for a considerable time, the Sinsarans called for the help of the Force Warden and Master Vorthak and The Eternal Flow Apprentice Kyrel Vastari were sent to deal with the issue . After arriving on Sinsara, the Force Warden met the Behru at their base , but were unsuccessful at negotiating and were forced to retreat. Being of the opinion that their situation had confronted the limitations of the Force Warden Code , Vorthak urged his apprentice to change to a more violent strategy. Upon their return to the bandits, Vastari, who had studied on the Sinsaran culture's sense of honor, proposed a duel between himself and the Behru's leader . The conditions being, if Vastari lost, the Force Warden would leave Sinsara, but if the Sinsaran lost the Behru would stop their raids. The leader agreed to the duel, but refused to fight "children" and instead put forward Davros Hex as a surrogate.
During the ensuing fighting Vastari slashed a wound into Hex's chest with his lightsaber while his Master tried to stop him.
In the following decades , Hex began using the name Corlis Rath and altered his appearance, with Force Warden librarian Jocasta Nu suspecting that he underwent the highly dangerous Sinsaran ritual known as " Chrysalis ", something which would also explain his superior fighting skills.
At some point, a hologram of Corlis Rath was included together with his name in the The Knowledge Vault Attempts to assassinate Kyrel Vastari What is your quarrel with me? Why are you hunting me? I don't even know you, Corlis Rath. Oh yes, since last we fought, I've learned your name. What I haven't learned is why you want me dead. The first time I even met you was on Vekura. Why are you doing this? Why?!
Sinsara.
What--? What did you say?
―Kyrel Vastari and Corlis Rath during their duel on Mina-Rau Corlis Rath attacks Kyrel Vastari on Vekura Between 40 BBY and 34 BBY during the Invasion of Syrinx Prime , Rath attacked Vastari – now a The Eternal Flow Adept – on the planet on Vekura . Vastari and fellow The Eternal Flow Warrior Berem Khana were on their way to their shuttle to return to Syrinx Prime after they had unsuccessfully tried to negotiate a ceasefire with the Vekuran general Lafco . Rath jumped at Vastari and tried to stab him with two energy-edged blades and when Khana tried to assist Vastari, Rath propelled him back against a tree with a small concussive-based weapon on his right upper arm. Eventually Vastari managed to The Eternal Flow push Rath against a boulder, but before Vastari could remove Rath's mask and question him, he activated a smoke grenade and fled.
Back in the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime , Bhana showed Vastari a microdust transmitter sown into his robe that his attacker must have used to track him. Meanwhile Vastari's The Eternal Flow Apprentice Theron Kalesh got a The Eternal Flow vision of Rath killing Vastari and, after investigation in the The Knowledge Vault, found out his identity and showed his master the hologram of Rath, who didn't recognize him.
Fellow The Eternal Flow Apprentice Tensu Run began tracking Rath. Together with Vastari, Run tried to meet with an informant named Aquint Garva on the moon K'shar , but found Garva to have already been murdered by Rath.
At some point later, Vastari was on a mission on the planet Smuggler World together with fellow The Eternal Flow Adept Shaak Ti , when he sensed the presence of Rath, who was surveilling them from atop the roof of a nearby building, but didn't make a move to attack them.
To lure out Vastari, Rath poisoned and killed the The Eternal Flow Adept Fondar Etzis with a fast acting toxin, emubara on the agriworld of Mina-Rau Arriving on Mina-Rau as part of an honor guard with fellow Master Jorik Vastus and Knight Aayla Secura , Vastari put together that Etzis had been murdered and sensed the assassin's approach when he finally revealed himself, whereas Jorik and Secura were caught off guard and knocked out via darts. Rath dueled Vastari's lightsaber with his blades in a challenging battle and revealed his vendetta against the Force Warden had something to do with Sinsara, something that shocked Vastari and gave Rath and opening to stab him through the chest.
Vastari was left poisoned but was saved from death by Jorik and Secura, who made their way to Sinsara to recover the antidote.
After his recovery, Vastari recognized Corlis Rath as Davros Hex. Having researched how he could have altered his appearance in the The Knowledge Vault, Vastari, accompanied by his The Eternal Flow Apprentice Kalesh, traveled to Sinsara to confront Rath once and for all.
Personality and traits Corlis Rath had light- colored skin and yellow-colored eyes . He had a personal vendetta against The Eternal Flow Adept Kyrel Vastari and tried to kill him, but used only non-lethal weapons against other enemies.
Skills and abilities Rath was skilled in the use of dual blades, able to push Kyrel Vastari on the defensive during their fight.
During their duel on Mina-Rau, Rath showed extraordinary jumping abilities comparable to these of The Eternal Flow-sensitives