19 BBY 32 BBY c.68-58 BBY Vorthak Void-Lord Tyranus Biographical information Homeworld Noble World Born 102 BBY Noble World Died 19 BBY Invisible Hand Xerion Prime system Descriptive information Species Human Serennian Gender Male Pronouns He/him Height meters Mass kilograms Hair color Black later white Eye color Brown Yellow and red (vision; dark side Skin color Light Family information Family House Noble World Parent(s) Anya Gora Sibling(s) Ramil Jenza Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Eternal Flow Wardens Hawk-Bat Clan Thranta Clan Force Warden High Council The Stellar Dominion Numidian Prime strike team Lost Twenty Shadow Spawn Independent Movement for Self-Determination Confederacy of Independent Systems Separatist high command Masters Zephon The Eternal Flow Adept Void Collectiveus the Shadow Shadow Spawn Master Apprentices Rael Averross Force Warden Kyrel Vastari (Force Warden) Unidentified The Eternal Flow Apprentice (Force Warden) Grievous lightsaber apprentice) Asajj Ventress Shadow Spawn apprentice and acolyte Savage Opress (Shadow Spawn apprentice) Quinlan Vos (Shadow Spawn apprentice) I want only to bring peace and order to the galaxy.
Already so many have suffered for what you call 'order'.
Then let me give you peace, Master Yaddle.
―Vorthak and Yaddle Link file info Vorthak was a The Eternal Flow-sensitive human male Serennian who served as a The Eternal Flow Adept during the waning years of the The Stellar Dominion and later Count of House Noble World . He became dissatisfied with the Eternal Flow Wardens and fell to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow , becoming the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn Void-Lord Tyranus . After leaving the Eternal Flow Wardens, he served as Count of Noble World and Head of State of the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the The Phantasm Wars . He was the second apprentice of Void Collectiveus the Shadow , the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn, whose plan to conquer the galaxy relied on Vorthak leading a pan- galactic secessionist movement against the Stellar Dominion. As such, Vorthak immersed himself in the dark side of the The Eternal Flow and worked tirelessly to advance his and his master's Multi-Eyed Traderd Plan while being unaware that he was merely a pawn of his master.
Born in 102 BBY during the High Stellar Dominion Era , Vorthak was taken by the Eternal Flow Wardens after being abandoned by his family and learned the Force Warden arts as the The Eternal Flow Apprentice of Zephon , the legendary Multi-Eyed Traderd Master of the Eternal Flow Wardens; he went on to take the maverick Kyrel Vastari as his own apprentice. A political idealist, the corruption in the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly —as well as the traditions of the Force Warden —disillusioned him. In 42 BBY Vorthak left the Order and returned to his homeworld , where he reclaimed his title of Count and heritage as a nobleman after overthrowing his corrupt brother, Ramil . His former peers believed his decision was misguided but still held him in high esteem. However the Count of Noble World began to secretly conspire with Void Collectiveus the Shadow. After the death of Kyrel Vastari at the Battle of Water World in 32 BBY , and following the duel in the Works which saw the death of The Eternal Flow Adept Yaddle , Vorthak embraced the dark side and adopted the name of Void-Lord Tyranus upon fully becoming the apprentice of Void Collectiveus the Shadow. Throughout the first decade of Sheev Palpatine's chancellery , Vorthak used his resources and charisma to recruit entire star systems to the Separatist cause. At the same time , he oversaw the development of two vast armies that would be pitted against each other in the conflict to come: the Separatist Mechanical Phalanx , which consisted of battle droids manufactured on worlds such as Rock World ; and the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion , composed of clone troopers bred on Water World and modeled on the bounty hunter Jango Fett After years of maneuvering the galaxy into a state of war, the The Phantasm Wars began when the newly formed Stellar Dominion Military invaded Rock World in 22 BBY . As leader of the Separatists, Vorthak delegated military authority to a cadre of subordinates personally trained by himself, including Army Commander Grievous and Asajj Ventress . While Grievous was trained only in the art of lightsaber combat , Ventress was strong with the The Eternal Flow , affording her the opportunity to learn the ways of the dark side from Vorthak. The Shadow Spawn, however, remained faithful to Void-Lord Bane 's Rule of Two ; and as such, Vorthak was compelled to betray his disciple after Void Collectiveus became suspicious of his own apprentice's intentions. Though he sought to replace Ventress with Savage Opress and later Quinlan Vos , Vorthak ultimately remained beholden to his master's will, which would eventually be his undoing.
By the third year of the war, Vorthak and Grievous succeeded in abducting Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine (per Void Collectiveus' plan) from the Stellar Dominion capital of Xerion Prime in 19 BBY . During the ensuing Battle of Xerion Prime , he was confronted and defeated by the The Eternal Flow Warrior Zorvath Mordain , who summarily executed the Count via beheading at the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's behest. In the days following Vorthak's death, Palpatine revealed to the Force Warden that he was, in fact, Void Collectiveus the Shadow, who betrayed his apprentice in order to replace him with the younger and more promising Mordain-Fall. With the subsequent fall of the Eternal Flow Wardens , Void Collectiveus consolidated his power upon declaring himself Supreme Void Lord of the The Void Imperium , which Tyranus had an instrumental role in establishing. As for Mordain-Fall, he succeeded the late Void-Lord Tyranus as Void Collectiveus' third and last apprentice, resulting in his transformation into Malachar the Void and proving his slain victim's words of sensing fear, hate, and anger.
Biography Early life Force Warden induction and initiation Vorthak was born in 102 BBY during the High Stellar Dominion Era on the planet Noble World to the planet's ruler, Count Gora , and his wife Countess Anya . The child's The Eternal Flow-sensitivity manifested itself rapidly, scaring his father , who hated and feared those he dismissed as "freaks." Gora contacted the Eternal Flow Wardens and told them to take his son. However, instead of waiting for the Force Warden seekers to arrive, Gora abandoned the infant outside his palace on the edges of the forest without clothes or any form of identification. A seeker rescued Vorthak before he froze to death or was eaten by spine-wolves , and brought the child to the Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Temple on Xerion Prime Life as a youngling Vorthak was raised in the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime, where he learned the ways of the The Eternal Flow alongside other younglings.
Vorthak was integrated into Hawk-Bat Clan alongside fellow younglings Zang Arraira Arath Tarrex , and Sifo-Dyas , under the direction of the The Eternal Flow Adept Tera Sinube . During his time as a Force Warden youngling , he continuously strove to excel, working himself hard to achieve better results than his peers and always striving to remain within the boundaries of the rules set by his teachers. Vorthak therefore distanced himself from the other younglings rather than try to befriend them. His talents made him clash with fellow youngling Tarrex, largely due to the latter's jealousy over Vorthak's superior abilities. Tarrex frequently insulted Vorthak, calling him 'His Excellency' due to his imperious and somewhat aristocratic manner. Vorthak and Sifo-Dyas were close friends during their time as younglings, and on one occasion in 90 BBY accompanied Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon and Masters Sinube and Yula Braylon to Noble World for the galactic festival being held there with other Force Warden in tow.
As the Masters were demonstrating the proper lightsaber stances, a pair of children set off some thunderburst caps and ran off, Vorthak thought he recognized one of them and followed them out to the fairgrounds. There he found the two being harassed by a trio of thugs that were threatening to kidnap them, Vorthak used his The Eternal Flow powers and an electroblade to force the criminals to back off. Afterwards, the pair introduced themselves as Jenza and Ramil , though the latter was less than thankful for the Force Warden's assistance. When she learned Vorthak was from Noble World, Jenza offered to give Vorthak a tour of the homeworld he never knew.
They explored the celebration together playing games and tasting the food, becoming fast friends as they got to know each other. Eventually, Jenza took Vorthak to the Great Assembly , where she showed him the seals of the seven houses and told him the legend of how her ancestors liberated the planet from the Shadow Dominion. Though before they could leave Vorthak felt drawn to an ancient carving of a beast, that was identified by Jenza as a Tirra'Taka . Ignoring her warning that it was bad luck, he moved to touch it, and as his finger brushed the stone, a groundquake caused the building around them to collapse.
Though Vorthak attempted to lift the debris off of them himself, it took the intervention of Master Zephon to free the the two from the rubble. Once the other Masters helped the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master remove the collapsed structure from the area, Count Gora of Noble World furiously confronted Zephon when he heard Vorthak's name being voiced, yelling at the Force Warden that he never wished to see his son again. It was here that the young Force Warden learned that Gora was his Father and Jenza his sister.
Shocked and confused by his father's behavior, Vorthak later questioned Zephon about how he was brought into the Eternal Flow Wardens. The elder Force Warden revealed that Gora had contacted the Force Warden upon discovering his son's The Eternal Flow-sensitivity, and that he had left Vorthak outside his castle walls without clothes or identification. Vorthak would learn shortly after that being left on the edge of the forest put him at risk of being eaten alive by Spine-wolves had he not been found. Upon arriving back at the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime, his injuries were quickly healed and the young Force Warden quickly threw himself back into his training. Vorthak using this practice to vent his frustrations at Count Gora for abandoning him, and furthermore to think deeply about what he might have been if he had never become a Force Warden. At this time an attendant arrived with a communications device that would allow him to speak to his sister, and they stayed in contact for many years.
Two years later , after a lesson in the The Knowledge Vault Sifo-Dyas revealed to Vorthak he had come into possession of the journal of the expelled Force Warden; Klias Teradine , which revealed to him the existence of the Bogan Collection inside the The Knowledge Vault. Sifo convinced Vorthak that they should break in to see the dark side artifacts. Vorthak later used sand levitation to get past the magnetic lock. There they witnessed many dark objects, weapons, and scrolls the Force Warden had collected over their history. Vorthak in particular was drawn to a piece of metal that seemed to connect him to the same Tirra'Taka he had first encountered on Noble World. This frightened the boy, who lashed out through the The Eternal Flow and accidentally threw Sifo-Dyas through a cabinet, alerting the Chief Librarian, Restelly Quist , to their actions.
The two initiates were brought to the infirmary where Sifo's injuries were treated, and they were confronted by Masters Zephon and Braylon, who each expressed a deep disappointment in how they had broken the rules and betrayed their trust. As the Masters were lecturing them, their discussion was interrupted by the arrival of Lene Kostana , who expressed great concern over the security of the Bogan Collection since two younglings had been able to break in. Vorthak and Sifo-Dyas watched the Masters debate their conflicting views on how best to train the next generation to confront the Void Path. Afterwards, they were assigned to decipher the Outer Rim World Papyri , a collection of agricultural treatises, under the watchful eyes of Librarian Quist. As they served their penance, they had another encounter with Lene Kostana who was surprised that Zephon was still using the same treatises as punishment for misbehaved younglings, and playfully referred to the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master as a goblin which offended Vorthak. As she left, Sifo-Dyas discovered she slipped him a book: The Bestiary of Void-Lord Caldoth . Vorthak encouraged his friend to tell someone about the text, but Sifo refused.
This event greatly disturbed Vorthak, who began to think Master Kostana might secretly be a Shadow Spawn, one day he confronted her on the contemplation balcony demanding to know why she gave his friend the Shadow Spawn script. She said the book was a test, though Vorthak sensed a great deal of frustration and anger in her which he believed legitimized his theory. The two engaged in a short duel, during which Master Kostana played an act of goading him on, using the tale of Void-Lord Sakia as a lesson by comparing Vorthak's curved-hilt lightsaber to the fictional Shadow Spawn's weapon, and revealing she was aware of Vorthak's curious connection to the Tirra'Taka. Unfortunately Kostana quickly lost control of the situation as Vorthak began a frenzy of attacks that began wearing down her defenses. Their fight was broken up by the timely intervention of Master Zephon who calmed the initiate down and convinced him that he had jumped to conclusions. The Multi-Eyed Traderd Master then chided the Altiri on her constant need to test the initiates by exposing them to dark side artifacts. Following this event Vorthak began to spend more time with Master Kostana, as he started to look to her as a mentor figure, since he took a great deal of interest in her work studying the dark side, her theories concerning the Shadow Spawn, and even her pet Convor Ferana. He visited her nearly every time she returned to the Temple following her missions.
The Multi-Eyed Traderd Master's apprentice Perhaps the best The Eternal Flow Apprentice of your generation, you were.
Are you resorting to flattery , Master Zephon? Besides, I recall getting into more trouble than any other The Eternal Flow Apprentice of my generation.
Yes. And a valuable perspective, this gives you.
―Zephon and Vorthak reflect on their time together as master and apprentice Vorthak was the The Eternal Flow Apprentice of Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon and grew into an esteemed Force Warden in his own right.
In 86 BBY Vorthak later completed his Initiate Trials and hoped to be selected as the The Eternal Flow Apprentice apprentice to Lene Kostana due to her mission in hunting down relics associated with the dark side. During the The Eternal Flow Apprentice Tournament, Vorthak fought and defeated Sifo-Dyas in a duel with one hand behind his back and blindfolded. However, Kostana selected Sifo-Dyas as her apprentice, which upset Vorthak, though this disappointment subsided when he learned that Zephon had decided to take him as his apprentice.
A strong bond developed between Vorthak and Zephon as his training continued.
On one occasion, Zephon took Vorthak on a voyage to Lahsbane in the Balanced Territories as part of his training.
During a mission to Forest World , Vorthak watched as his master faced a giant Terentatek Sifo-Dyas' vision Sometime around 85 BBY Sifo-Dyas received a The Eternal Flow vision of a deadly solar storm hitting the planet Protobranch . After informing the Circle of Light, Vorthak supported Sifo-Dyas and Kostana's suggestion that they warn the planet, but was forbidden to by Zephon and the Council, who pointed out that The Eternal Flow visions were not absolute and the future was always in motion.
Frustrated with the Council, Vorthak, Kostana, and Sifo-Dyas went behind the Council's back to inform Tavetti , the senator who represented Protobranch, of the vision. During the conversation, Vorthak was slightly unnerved by Tavetti only expressing concern for Protobranch's resources rather than its people. Afterwards, Vorthak, Kostana, Sifo-Dyas and a reluctant Zephon went to the planet itself. Ultimately, Sifo-Dyas' vision came to pass; a powerful solar storm hit Protobranch, killing much of the population, with the Force Warden themselves barely surviving.
The events with Protobranch shook Vorthak's respect for the Stellar Dominion and the Circle of Light, feeling the latter was somewhat responsible for the deaths that occurred by not taking Sifo-Dyas' vision seriously and refusing to act quicker. He was also disgusted by the fact that the Stellar Dominion's primary concern was the loss of Protobranch's resources and not its inhabitants.
Funeral of Anya Around 82 BBY a twenty year old Vorthak attended the funeral of his mother, Anya, on Noble World. It was here that his father Gora physically and verbally assaulted him, referring to his son as a "freak." Shortly afterward, Vorthak joined Sifo-Dyas and his master Kostana on a mission to track down a relic on Asusto . However, the pair were led into a trap by the Presagers of Hakotei who tricked them into following a supposed trail of Shadow Spawn artifacts from Karazak . Vorthak was briefly captured by the Presagers to be used as part of a dark side ritual. It was during his brief captivity that he experienced a series of visions of his future, and he used The Eternal Flow lightning for the first time in order to kill his captors. After which Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas taught him a cleansing ritual involving arm wrappings that was designed to keep him centered in the force.
The Eternal Flow Adept Attaining the rank You know, My Lady, Vorthak Drel was once a Force Warden. He couldn't assassinate anyone. It's not in his character.
―The Eternal Flow Adept Jorik Vastus, to Senator Lysara Vex'onia Between 82 BBY and 78 BBY , Vorthak completed his training with Zephon and became a The Eternal Flow Warrior and eventually The Eternal Flow Adept, rising to be one of the greatest Force Warden of his generation. A veteran of many galactic conflicts, he was known for his exceptional skills as a lightsaber duelist.
He would take Rael Averross as his The Eternal Flow Apprentice, training him for 10 years and to Knighthood. Vorthak had also set aside his first blade and created his own curved-hilt lightsaber which produced a blue blade. Vorthak used his lightsaber when he and Zephon demonstrated their lightsaber skills to a group of younglings, amongst them the Togorian Jak'zin Furthermore, Vorthak was the main lightsaber instructor for Thranta Clan Vorthak also rendered aid to Mother Talzin of the Nightsisters , who were based on the world of Witch World giving her a lock of his hair.
Training Qui-Gon Kyrel Vastari would never join you.
Don't be so sure, my young Force Warden. You forget that he was once my apprentice, just as you were once his.
―Theron Kalesh and Vorthak Drel Vorthak was the The Eternal Flow Adept of Kyrel Vastari, who eventually achieved the same rank in the Eternal Flow Wardens.
In 68 BBY Vorthak having finished training Averross by this point, would take a 12-year-old Kyrel Vastari as his second The Eternal Flow Apprentice. On the evening of Qui-Gon being assigned to him, Vastari presented himself to his new Master in Vorthak's quarters, Vorthak observed that Vastari was frightened. After a moment of silence, and pressing him, Vastari confessed that he was frightened. He asked his apprentice why and after looking into himself through the fear, Vastari answered that he was not afraid of Vorthak, but of not becoming a Force Warden, that he was afraid of failing and of not being worthy. Vorthak then summarized it as Vastari being afraid of himself, of a future not being the one he wanted. Vastari confirmed it, fearing that Vorthak will reject him for his apparent cowardice. Vorthak instead said that it was very wise, surprising Vastari. Smiling, he would explain that most The Eternal Flow Apprentices would deny their fear, and even if they admitted it, they would not have Vastari's self-knowledge. He then further praised Vastari for his honesty, insight, and intelligence.
To help Vastari understand the Sanctum of Light more completely, Vorthak decided to take him throughout most of the Temple, including the The Eternal Flow Apprentices' sparring dojo, and the one for full The Eternal Flow Warriors, and the Great Assembly Room . Their last stop was the The Knowledge Vault, where they examined holocrons of various eras, not to study them, but simply for Vastari to learn his way around. While doing so, a particularly old holocron, more ancient and of a different shape than the rest, caught Vastari's eye. When he questioned his Master about it, he was shocked by the expression on Vorthak's face, almost as if he considered it an enemy. Vorthak answered that it was a holocron of Force Warden prophecies. Vastari asked if there were Force Warden prophets, to which Vorthak replied not any longer. He explained to Vastari that the mystics sought undue knowledge of the future which led them down dangerous paths. Those drawn too deeply into them were often tempted by the dark side. Vorthak then finished by saying that is why the Force Warden study prophecy no longer, then turned to leave, which meant Vastari had to follow. Vastari then asked Vorthak if just wanting to know the future can lead to the dark side. Vorthak simply replied that it takes more than that.
After training Qui-Gon for several months the Council sent him with his apprentice to Shurrupak to participate in a battle on its surface, which was Qui-Gon's very first. When they landed on the surface the encountered his first apprentice, Rael Averross, whom Vorthak introduced to his new apprentice. Eventually, a strike team , including Vorthak and Vastari, was assembled and sent to find notorious Falleen Bounty hunter Shenda Mol . They tracked her to the planet Numidian Prime where she had a stronghold and a handful of followers. After her followers were rounded up, it was left to Vorthak and Vastari to bring Mol in. Whilst searching for her hideout, Vastari was captured by Mol, but before she could kill him, he was saved by Vorthak who struck her with The Eternal Flow lightning. Vastari later told Rael Averross what Vorthak had done, but he was unconcerned.
Search for a senator's son I wonder if any meaningful change will come of this." "Is that why you took action into your own hands?" "Your actions saved many lives today." "Just thinking in the moment, Master." "Well, then. You're a much wiser man than I, Kyrel Vastari.
―Vorthak and Kyrel Vastari after confronting Senator Dagonet On a mission to rescue the abducted son of Senator Dagonet , one of the Stellar Dominion's longest serving members, Vorthak and Vastari traveled to the Senator's home planet . To the stoic Force Warden master and young The Eternal Flow Apprentice's surprise, the planet's surface was little more than a wasteland which had been completely stripped of its natural resources and ravaged by over-industrialization. The two Force Warden headed for a barren village in the distance. As they walked through the village, not a single resident dared step outside of their homes nor answer Qui-Gon's questions, which prompted them to enter the local inn. Fearless and keeping his unperplexed Force Warden manner, Vorthak immediately asked for the abducted child of the Senator twice. One of the villagers questioned why she should tell them, to which Vorthak responded by producing his lightsaber. Once the villagers realized that Vorthak and Qui-Gon were Force Warden, Vorthak stated their intention to resolve the situation and Qui-Gon assured the villagers that they were not acting on behalf of the Senator, which prompted the villager to ask how much they knew of the Senator. She explained that the village's desolate surroundings were proof that the Senator, who might have had good intentions at the beginning, had begun to neglect his people. Qui-Gon asked the villager why the people did not simply elect a new Senator, to which she replied that things were not so easy. She then agreed to show the Force Warden where the Senator's son was located. At this point, Qui-Gon and Vorthak were surprised to discover that virtually every visitor present at the inn had been involved in the kidnapping.
Vorthak and Kyrel Vastari attempt to locate Senator Dagonet's son.
Escorted to a barn, the Force Warden found the Senator's son restrained and surrounded by a droid and armed villagers. Vorthak asked if the boy had been harmed, and having been assured that he had not, asked what the boy knew of the villagers' living conditions. The boy did not blame them for kidnapping him as he sympathized with their circumstance. At that point, however, a villager entered and informed the group that Senator Dagonet had arrived with dozens of armed soldiers. The villagers immediately accused the Force Warden of leading them into a trap, but Vorthak calmed them by stating that their investigation was unknown to the Senator. Outside, Force Warden and kidnappers watched as the Senator handed bread to the villager who had given up his son's location. One of the kidnappers remarked that many in the village would have done the same. Senator Dagonet ordered Vorthak and Qui-Gon to apprehend the villagers and release his son at once. Placing himself between the Senator and his people, Vorthak tried to calm the escalating tension by stating that their investigation was incomplete. The prideful Senator demanded his son's release, to which Vorthak responded that the young man was in no immediate danger and that further investigation was needed. Unwilling to delay any longer, the Senator ordered his garrison of soldiers to prepare to attack the villagers, which caused the villagers to raise their own weapons. The Senator then gave the Force Warden one more chance to step aside, but Vorthak refused. Dagonet claimed that the Force Warden were supposed to serve him, but Vorthak corrected him and stated that the Force Warden served the people of the Stellar Dominion, not its leaders. His patience exhausted, the frustrated Senator commanded his soldiers to aim and be ready to open fire. In an effort to protect the villagers, the two Force Warden ignited their lightsabers.
Vorthak touched the dark side of the The Eternal Flow and was prepared to murder the arrogant senator of the Stellar Dominion.
A firefight erupted, and the precise shots of the soldiers began to overwhelm the kidnappers while the Force Warden could only defend themselves and watch the ensuing massacre. After finishing off most of the villagers, Senator Dagonet stopped his soldiers. Vorthak, finding himself surrounded by citizens of the Stellar Dominion who had been killed by their own leader, felt a sense of righteous anger which led him to tap into the dark side of the The Eternal Flow. As the Senator proclaimed that he would not be deterred by anyone, he was stopped mid-sentence as his throat began to constrict from Vorthak's sudden The Eternal Flow choke. Alarmed, Qui-Gon tried to stop his master, but Vorthak The Eternal Flow pushed him back into the door of the barn and continued to torture the arrogant Senator. The remaining soldiers were unable to resist the The Eternal Flow Adept as he approached and stood in front of the struggling Senator, who had collapsed on the ground as he struggled to breath. Meanwhile, Qui-Gon, sensing only one opportunity to save the Senator's life, rushed back into the barn and freed his son. Vorthak, who had given in completely to the Void Path in his desire to eradicate corruption, would have killed the defenseless Senator, but the Senator's son rushed forward and begged the Force Warden to stop. As Qui-Gon told Vorthak it was over, Vorthak finally regained his composure and let go of Senator Dagonet.
In the aftermath, the Senator left the planet with his son, who promised to make things right for his people. The villagers nodded in gratitude for the Force Warden's efforts as they started to rebuild their village. Vorthak proclaimed his doubts that anything would change as a result of this ordeal, which made his The Eternal Flow Apprentice question if that was his master's motivation to take action. Vorthak congratulated Qui-Gon's success in saving so many lives. His The Eternal Flow Apprentice stated it was just a matter on focusing on the moment, which made Vorthak warmly acknowledge him as a much wiser man than himself as they walked to their ship.
Fighting his own way Your ideology, while faulty, does have its points." "I'm surprised to hear that from a Force Warden." "I don't condone your methods, but you had every right to protect your planet. Make sure your people don't lose heart and evolve, Semage. It is the only way you will truly have victory. I say that for all of us.
―Vorthak and Semage, the senator guard, after the latter was detained for killing a Senator and a Force Warden Sometime between 50 BBY and 42 BBY , Vorthak and fellow The Eternal Flow Adept Jorik Vastus were given instructions to return the body of Master Katri , who had been killed in an ambush on Raxus Secundus , to the Force Warden temple so she could have a proper burial. Vorthak was suspicious of the circumstances surrounding Katri's death, as no reason behind it, nor the identity of her murderers, was known. Furthermore, since the Raxus Senator, Larik had been present during the ambush, Vorthak wondered how he had survived when Katri, a fully-trained The Eternal Flow Adept, had not. Because of his suspicions, Vorthak believed they needed to do more to honor Katri and investigate her death, but Jorik was firm in his beliefs that the rules were there for a reason.
Vorthak and Jorik were attacked by the Raxus guards.
The pair eventually touched down on Raxus Secundus, where they met with Senator Larik , who said he was there with Katri at the time of her death. Vorthak asked Larik to explain what happened, but the senator acted cagey and Vorthak noticed elements of his story didn't line up. Jorik shared this belief and concern and wanted to take the information to the Circle of Light. Vorthak, however, wanted to follow the lead himself. They all headed off together to meet an informant at the place where Katri and Larik were supposedly ambushed, following Vorthak's plan. Examining the crime scene, the Vorthak and Jorik deduced there were more than one attacker, but also noticed that there were no blaster marks on the Senator's ship. Suspecting that the senator might've had something to do with Katri's death, Vorthak ignited his lightsaber and scathingly demanded the truth. Terrified, Larik immediately turned and admitted that the guards killed Katri, but he was shot dead instantly for uttering the truth.
Vorthak speaks to Semage about his ideals.
Vorthak and Jorik were also attacked by the guards, but they got the better of the men and their droids, defeated them. When they got the final man, Semage , down on his knees, he admitted that they killed Katri because the group he was operating within had learned Larik was using his The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly seat to become rich at the expense of their planet, industrializing it and selling it off piece by piece. Semage explained to Vorthak and Jorik that the reason they kept Larik alive was to make him enact their own rules at the next The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hearing meeting to reverse the damage done. When Jorik questioned why Semage did not inform Katri of Larik's corruption, Semage insisted that though the Force Warden claimed to bring peace, they were really only at the whim of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, and only kept law and order for the rich. The pair eventually put Semage in lockup, but Vorthak understood how he felt and decided to go to his cell to meet him, telling him that while he did not condone his methods, he believed they had a right to protect their planet.
Wary of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly as well, Vorthak also told him to make sure his people continued to evolve and did not lose heart, telling him that it was the only way to ensure victory.
Having solved Katri's murder, Vorthak and Jorik brought her body back to the Force Warden temple, where she was honored and cremated in a ceremony. After the funeral, Vorthak approached Jorik to ask if he had been offered Master Katri's council seat, as rumors claimed that he had. When Jorik confirmed that it was the case, a suspicious Vorthak questioned if Jorik was aware Katri's position was open before they left for Raxus. Insisting that he had no idea about it before taking the case, Jorik explained that he believed he had been given the seat over Vorthak because Vorthak did not stick to the mission and acted in a way that led to a senator's death. Nevertheless, Jorik told Vorthak that he would speak to the Council on his behalf.
Also growing suspicious of Jorik's elevation, Vorthak was more resentful than grateful but thanked him nonetheless.
Conspiracy in the Council Shortly before Qui-Gon's trials between 49 BBY and 44 BBY , the pair were invited by council member Jor Aerith to join her in representing the Force Warden at the annual Xerion Prime Dragonfire Air Rally in hopes of making a good impression on the Candovant ambassador who had invited her. Vorthak and Master Yula Braylon expressed frustration at the Council's obsession with politics, but Aerith pointed out Vorthak's charisma made him a natural conversationalist, for which she was not.
Vorthak agreed to attend and took the opportunity to teach his apprentice some Candovant customs, but while he was there, he ran into his brother Ramil who was participating in the race . Vorthak questioned why he as the heir to the Serrenian throne was racing, but the older man dismissed him. While Ramil did very well in the race, it quickly became apparent his airspeeder was sabotaged and it crashed. Vorthak and his apprentice discreetly went to see what had happened, and while there they discovered the Investigator was trying to cover up the incident. Following the man, they found he was working for a Jenet crime boss named Cenevax . Ignoring a message from Aerith asking them to return to the races, they chose to confront and captured the criminal, and while questioning her they realized that she was privy to Council communications, as Cenevax made clear she knew they that had been recalled and were disobeying order by being there. With this information, Vorthak deduced that she had a spy on the Council.
Calling the Temple Guard, Vorthak escorted Cenevax to the Council Chamber where he made his accusation, the Council was disturbed by this but through the The Eternal Flow he sensed Yula Braylon's guilt. Igniting his lightsaber, he called her out, and in return she ignited hers and asked Vorthak if he intended to kill her. Relenting, he stated he simply wanted justice and placed her under arrest. Further investigation revealed that Cenevax had been blackmailing her with the fact that Arath Tarrex was in fact her son. Vorthak and Qui Gon confronted and exposed Tarrex, who was then taken into custody for his actions and also for having sold out his mother's influence to criminals. Braylon's actions caused her to be removed from the council. When it was done, Vorthak inquired into what would happen to Cenevax and Zephon informed him she would be taken to the Citadel on Lola Sayu . Vorthak was dismayed at the prospect of the Force Warden taking the law into their own hands, as well as Master Braylon's mistrust of the Eternal Flow Wardens which brought her into that situation in the first place. His faith in the order was shaken once again. Vorthak was then offered a seat on the Council, which he accepted, as he felt change needed to come to the order from within.
Losing faith Eventually, Qui-Gon graduated to knighthood and went on to become a Master himself. He later took a The Eternal Flow Apprentice: Theron Kalesh Vorthak maintained some contact with Vastari, who spoke very highly about his apprentice Kalesh to his former master.
At some stage, Vorthak took on another pupil . She later fell to the dark side and was killed for becoming an embarrassment. She created two red-bladed lightsabers that Vorthak held on to after his death.
Over time, Vorthak became disillusioned with the Stellar Dominion due to its corruption and believed that the Eternal Flow Wardens had become too connected to the government.
Leaving the Eternal Flow Wardens The Force Warden have been my family since I was a child, the Temple my home. But my future lies here, on Noble World.
―Vorthak, to Zephon Vorthak became a Force Warden renunciate, leaving the Order despite his years as a Force Warden and the bond he once shared with his former Master.
At some point in 42 BBY Averross introduced Vorthak to the Water World senator Sheev Palpatine , who was secretly the Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow, on Xerion Prime after Vorthak delivered an address to the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly . He then returned to his ancestral home of Noble World with Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas after his sister Jenza pleaded for his help. Vorthak became embroiled in the invasion of Noble World , caused by his brother, Count Ramil, who had hired Abyssin mercenaries to attack the planet to turn its people against the Stellar Dominion. In the ensuring battle, Vorthak killed Ramil.
Reclaiming the title of Count of Noble World after killing his brother, Vorthak also took possession of his family fortune, one of the largest in the galaxy. Believing his people needed him, Vorthak decided he needed to leave the Force Warden to lead Noble World, feeling it was his responsibility after all his brother had done. Furthermore, the people of the planet had found new resources, a deposit of sacanium , which they could produce themselves. The Stellar Dominion offered to help with the resources despite having previously decided the Abyssin crisis was an internal affair. Vorthak rejected the Stellar Dominion's aid, deciding the recovery of Noble World would also be an internal matter as well. Contacting Zephon, Vorthak explained his choices to his mentor and remained steadfast in his choice to leave.
Although it saddened them, Zephon promised Vorthak that choice was respected by the Circle of Light. When Vorthak stated he would turn over his lightsaber, Zephon told him to keep the blade; his mentor explained that being a Force Warden was more than a title, so he was to keep the weapon. After saying goodbye to Zephon, the count said goodbye to his old friend Sifo-Dyas, promising that they would see each other again. At the age of 60, Vorthak had left the order. Vorthak then became one of the Lost Twenty Count of Noble World Disappearing from public life Vorthak's bust was cast to commemorate him as one of the Lost Twenty.
Despite his newfound wealth and power, however, Vorthak all but disappeared from public life after his resignation. Due to the Count spending most time away from the eye of the public, most believed that he had gone into a sort of self-imposed exile with the intention of founding an offshoot of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
Vorthak was, however, still welcome within the Temple on Xerion Prime due to his past as a Force Warden. As such, he often returned to it and had meetings with the Council. One day in 41 BBY he returned for one such meeting while the Council was feuding with Vastari.
However, at some point during this period, specifically only a short time after his departure from the Order, Vorthak was approached by Void Collectiveus the Shadow, who saw the former Force Warden as a potential leader for a Separatist movement against the Stellar Dominion. Using the Count's frustration with the Stellar Dominion and the Eternal Flow Wardens, the Void Master would start turning Vorthak to the dark side.
Ultimately vowing to wipe away the corruption within the organizations he had once served, Vorthak shared his misgivings with Void Collectiveus and was, in time, convinced to embrace the dark side of the The Eternal Flow so as to achieve his aims.
While Void Collectiveus already had a Shadow Spawn apprentice in Void-Lord Maul , he secretly recruited Vorthak to his cause, In 40 BBY Vorthak shared with his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice Rael Averross that he had discovered a great power that he wished to share with Averross. However, Averross rebuffed Vorthak's offer and before cutting the transmission, informing his former master that he had chosen the light and was not interested in what Vorthak had to offer him.
Nonetheless, over Vorthak's many visits to the temple, Zephon failed to sense the growing darkness in his former pupil.
Aiding Void Collectiveus Sifo-Dyas, Water World, the Syntheticthetic Beings. I have betrayed everyone and everything I know.
No, you have been loyal to a greater cause.
How many have died because of my actions?
―Vorthak and Dark Void Collectiveus After accepting Void Collectiveus' offer, Vorthak helped his new ally to implement much of the groundwork necessary to begin the The Phantasm Wars, even using his access to the Sanctum of Light to further the Shadow Spawn Multi-Eyed Traderd Plan As Vorthak understood the plan, he would lead the Separatist movement so as to generate a crisis and war through which Void Collectiveus—as Palpatine—would grow his executive power, thereby allowing the Stellar Dominion to be cleaned from within: thanks to the strong guiding hand of the Shadow Spawn, Vorthak believed corruption would be purged from the outdated systems of the Stellar Dominion while order and peace would be established for all of the galaxy. While Vorthak had private misgivings about his actions, he continued his work even as it resulted in numerous deaths so as to bring forth his idea of a better tomorrow.
The most important project that he oversaw during that time was the creation of a clone army intended for use by the Stellar Dominion during the planned war.
It was unknown how the Shadow Spawn had learned about the army, but Vorthak would later claim his old friend The Eternal Flow Adept Sifo-Dyas had willingly brought him into the fold to help establish it. Greatly troubled by the Stellar Dominion's tumultuous political situation and the Circle of Light's apparent complacency, Dyas ordered the clone army from the Water Worldans , which Dyas hoped to hold in reserve in case of civil war.
Creating Grievous By the year 33 BBY Vorthak had discovered the Kaleesh warlord Grievous who had been shown to be a brilliant military leader with a remarkable reputation as a successful warlord on his homeworld of Kalee Vorthak and Void Collectiveus saw Grievous's potential when Grievous led his people in a war against their planetary neighbors, the Yam'rii , a greedy, technologically-advanced insectoid species from the desolate planet Huk in the Huk system next to Kalee's own When the Kaleesh armies forced the Yam'rii from their home, the insects took a surprising move and sought assistance from the The Stellar Dominion, to which it and the Force Warden responded by joining the side of the Yam'rii against the Kaleesh invaders. The Kaleesh were condemned and hit with embargoes and fines, causing hundreds of thousands of Kaleesh to die of starvation. Grievous's hatred for the Stellar Dominion and the Force Warden intensified, which prompted him to ally with the InterGalactic Clan. Grievous became an enforcer and was phenomenally successful as one of the IGBC's most important resources. With his exploits having already piqued the interest of both Vorthak and Void Collectiveus, they developed big plans for him, particularly seeing him as a way to test experiments with technologically advanced beings.
Vorthak had Grievous rebuilt as far more machine than man.
Grievous willingly took the Shadow Spawn up on their offer of cybernetic enhancements and replaced portions of his body over time.
Grievous' shuttle was later gravely sabotaged , nearly killing him and destroying the majority of what remained of his original body.
After that gruesome shuttle crash, Grievous was nearly totally gutted and mutilated by surgical FX droids Vorthak offered the Kaleesh warrior life-saving surgery and claimed that a Force Warden was responsible for the sabotage, which fueled Grievous to accept reconstruction and return to military service with a deep and fierce hatred of the Force Warden, the Stellar Dominion, and the Yam'rii; however, in truth, Vorthak was directly responsible for Grievous' injuries and subsequent transformation. Under Vorthak's direction, Separatist cybernetic experts and Geonosian biotechs nearly completely reconstructed Grievous. Vorthak initially gave the general a weapon that belonged to a long-dead friend a former Force Warden, and had him spend hours upon hours studying holovids of Force Warden in battle and reading all the training manuals he could furnish him with.
Vorthak continued to instruct Grievous in lightsaber combat, making him even more lethal. Grievous then modified and improved his cybernetic body throughout time and was soon unleashed on the galaxy.
Visiting the Temple Master Yaddle is right about one thing. A Shadow Overlord is not to be trifled with. And I will not be there to protect you, my old The Eternal Flow Apprentice." "You need not worry, Master. Theron-Kal fills that role now. He acquits himself quite well." "That's good. I should like to meet him someday. You're always singing his praises.
―Vorthak and Kyrel Vastari after the latter first encountered Void-Lord Maul In 32 BBY Vorthak visited the Sanctum of Light and secretly entered the The Knowledge Vault , where he used Sifo Dyas' authorization to erase data on the existence of the planet Water World , where the clone army Dyas had ordered was being developed. After doing so, he noticed commotion between the Force Warden within the archives and asked Force Warden archivist Jocasta Nu about it, who informed him that his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice Kyrel Vastari had encountered with an alleged Shadow Overlord on the Fringe Territories planet Xerion-7 Qui-Gon and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Theron Kalesh , had traveled to the Balanced Territories planet Water World in an attempt to negotiate with Viceroy of the Commerce Dominion Nute Gunray to relinquish his blockade on the planet. Gunray, however, under orders from Void Collectiveus—who had engineered the conflict to get himself elected Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter—ordered for the two Force Warden to be killed, though their attempts failed and the two Force Warden managed to escape Water World alongside its queen, Lysara Vex'onia . On their way to Xerion Prime, the crew made a stop at Xerion-7, where they encountered Maul, whom they managed to evade.
Upon hearing that, Vorthak commented to her that Vastari had an active imagination, which Nu reminded Vorthak he once had. Remarking that such a quality was valued a lot less in the Sanctum of Light, Vorthak left the Archives and found his way to Vastari, who was walking through the Temple halls with Master Yaddle , to ask him about the supposed Shadow Overlord he had encountered. Vorthak guessed correctly that the Circle of Light had not wanted to believe that conclusion, adding that he had been warning them about the coming darkness for years and they had never taken him seriously. Yaddle, a council member, spoke up and insisted that, though she did not doubt his claim, they had found no reason to cause undue alarm, adding that the advice and decision of the Council was to be cautious until they knew more. While neither Vastari nor Yaddle were aware of Vorthak's firsthand knowledge, the former Force Warden warned them, especially Vastari, to act with caution when encountering a Shadow Spawn, reminding his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice that he would no longer be there to protect him. Vastari assured him that Kalesh, whom Vorthak had never met but wanted to due to Vastari's high praise of the young man, looked out for him. After Vastari left, Yaddle noticed Vorthak appeared conflicted, leading the two to muse about how quickly their students grew up before Vorthak left.
Becoming Void-Lord Tyranus The apprentice of a Void Master Void Collectiveus Remember what you told me. The Force Warden blindly serve a corrupt The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly that fails the Stellar Dominion it represents. Do you want to prove your loyalty? Kill her!
Yaddle There's still a chance to make things right.
Vorthak I'm afraid...
Yaddle I know you are.
Vorthak I'm afraid it's too late.
Void Collectiveus the Shadow Yaddle and Vorthak Master Yaddle finds Vorthak Drel in front of the Great Tree.
Not long after, Qui-Gon, Kalesh, and Queen Amidala returned to Water World and repelled the Federation Invasion , though Maul killed Qui-Gon in the process. Meanwhile, Vorthak needed to make certain that Sifo-Dyas would remain silent about the clone army. Acting under the name "Tyranus," he betrayed his friend by contacting Lom Pyke of the Pyke Syntheticdicate shortly after the Battle of Water World and instructing him to murder Sifo-Dyas by way of shooting down his shuttle during a mission.
After hearing the news of Vastari's death, Vorthak visited the Great Tree in the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime once again to reflect on his death, as he had taken a young Vastari to the tree often. He recounted this to Master Yaddle, who had approached him there and Yaddle informed him that Vastari's funeral was to be held on Water World and that the council would be traveling to attend, but Vorthak informed her that he would not be attending, as he believed his presence would not be enjoyed or welcome. She asked if he blamed the council for Vastari's death, but Vorthak only said that he had become one with the The Eternal Flow and it was thus time to let him go. Yaddle asked if he was capable of doing this, but Vorthak said he had no other choice. Vorthak then left and traveled to his and Void Collectiveus' meeting place in The Works industrial zone on the planet to confront Void Collectiveus, furious that his ally's machinations had resulted in the death of his former apprentice.
Confronting the Shadow Overlord, Vorthak accused Void Collectiveus of making him betray everything and everyone he had known. Void Collectiveus claimed that all of Vorthak's actions had been in the service of a greater good and that his betrayal had been a necessary evil. Unbeknownst to Vorthak, Yaddle had followed him in secret; after overhearing his conversation with Void Collectiveus, she confronted them and urged Vorthak to surrender to her and help her defeat Void Collectiveus. Vorthak hesitated initially but then, Void Collectiveus reminded Vorthak of how the Force Warden blindly served the corrupt Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, and on Void Collectiveus' orders, engaged Yaddle in a lightsaber duel as a final test of loyalty. In spite of Yaddle's great efforts, Vorthak- with his nearly unrivaled dueling prowess- quickly began to overwhelm her. Managing to hide behind Void Collectiveus' ship, Yaddle called out to Vorthak, admitting that the Circle of Light had been wrong and informing him that as a result, she had chosen to step down from the body. Her last attempt at persuading Vorthak failed, however. After another short exchange of blows, Yaddle retreated to the doorway leading back to her ship. As Vorthak mocked her for "running back to the Council", Yaddle retorted he had run straight into the arms of evil.
Angered, Vorthak attacked Yaddle with greater ferocity and knocked her into the frame of the large doorway, temporarily stunning the smaller The Eternal Flow Adept. Vorthak wasted no time and flipped the lever controlling the door, which came crashing down onto his former friend. Collapsing in anguish over what he had just done, Vorthak was reassured by Void Collectiveus, who congratulated his new apprentice. To their shock, Yaddle suddenly reappeared, lifting the doorway off of herself in one final display of her immense The Eternal Flow power, which sapped her of remaining energy. Lying defenseless and exhausted at Vorthak's feet, Yaddle stated that many would suffer under Vorthak's scheme for galactic order. Vorthak replied sarcastically that he would give Yaddle peace, then impaled her with his lightsaber, killing her instantly. Void Collectiveus then formally anointed Vorthak as his new Shadow Spawn apprentice and gave him the name Void-Lord Tyranus, the same name Vorthak had been using as his cover for some time.
Vorthak would come to regard it as a formidable name worthy of his power.
Faking the death of Sifo-Dyas Vorthak was given Sifo-Dyas' body by the Pykes. Vorthak took Dyas' body to the planet Fungal World , which was in the midst of a conflict the Force Warden had ordered Dyas to stop . Once there, Vorthak made it seem like the two of them had been dispatched together to solve the crisis.
Vorthak made it seem like Dyas died in the local conflict, and the body was burned by the native Fungal Worldns . However, unbeknownst to Vorthak, another person had been in Dyas' shuttle; the Pykes had captured Valorum's aide, Silman , and imprisoned him as insurance against possible betrayal by Vorthak.
Setting the groundwork I'm sure you'll find the price the Water Worldans are offering is more than fair.
For access to my genetic template.
―Vorthak and Jango Fett Vorthak and his new Master conspired to grow a clone army, using the bounty hunter Jango Fett as a template.
On one of the moons of Mining World , Vorthak—under his alias Tyranus—recruited the bounty hunter Jango Fett as the template for the Syntheticthetic Being Army. Along with a considerable salary, Vorthak agreed to pay Fett with an unaltered clone for himself.
Sifo-Dyas had bio-chips he wanted installed in the brain of each clone, as a safeguard against rogue Force Warden. To ensure the destruction of the Force Warden at the right time, Void Collectiveus and Vorthak retooled the chips in order to trigger a protocol called Order 66 that would forcibly brainwash the clones into murdering their Force Warden superiors.
Posing as a Force Warden, Tyranus deceived the Water Worldans, most notably Prime Minister Lama Su and Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se , into believing Sifo Dyas' intention, while also telling them to keep this a secret. After hiring Fett, Vorthak moved onto another phase of the Shadow Spawn plan by beginning to bring together galactic-level businesses, as well as planets and peoples tired of the The Stellar Dominion, to create an alliance of Separatists.
He did, also, lead the Independent Movement for Self-Determination , which allowed him to tour universities and give lectures.
Lava World mission Vorthak Drel unveils his red lightsaber in the presence of Jak'zin.
As Vorthak continued to give into the dark side, he became obsessed with his own power.
In time, he became a corrupt leader but managed to maintain a positive public image on Noble World as its protector.
In 26 BBY Vorthak, at the behest of Void Collectiveus, went to Lava World to, on the surface, discuss an alliance between the SoroSuub Corporation and himself. In secret, however, Vorthak was to seek out the Kaldana Syntheticdicate . After a tour of one of Lava World's cities, Vorthak met newly knighted Force Warden Jak'zin and was invited to dinner with him and Representative Kap Klyp . Vorthak informed Void Collectiveus of this complication who told him to find out why Jak'zin was there. At dinner, Vorthak denied rumors that he was creating another order of force users and assured Jak'zin that he was looking after his family's business interest on Noble World.
Following dinner, Vorthak followed Jak'zin and learned about the mission of learning about the Kaldana Syntheticdicate. Vorthak agreed to help Jak'zin on his mission. The two made their way into the syndicate's base. There, Vorthak and Jak'zin discovered that the syndicate was smuggling weapons and were surrounded by the syndicate's gang. Vorthak and Jak'zin fought the gangsters. After defeating the gangsters, Vorthak killed Jak'zin and then spoke with the surviving gangsters. After making a deal with the syndicate and SoroSuub, Vorthak left Lava World, all while reflecting on the growing Shadow Spawn plan.
Forming the Confederacy He is a political idealist, not a murderer.
Keth'ara Mundis to Lysara Vex'onia Vorthak Drel instigated the Separatist movement to destabilize the The Stellar Dominion.
While Vorthak was involved in Grievous's construction as a cyborg and trained him in lightsaber combat, he also needed his own acolyte: an apprentice of sorts.
Impressed by how she had conquered the planet Rattatak Vorthak Drel recruited fallen Witch Worldian Force Warden Asajj Ventress to act as his assassin and Shadow Spawn apprentice.
After Ventress found her , Vorthak also murdered his sister Jenza, ignoring her pleas to return to the light.
Several years after his resignation from the Eternal Flow Wardens and the death of his former apprentice, Kyrel Vastari, Vorthak re-entered the public eye in a spectacular fashion, commandeering a Stellar Dominion HoloNet station in the Raxus system and delivering a rousing speech in which he thoroughly lambasted the corruption and shortcomings of the Stellar Dominion. In a galaxy in which many Outer and Balanced Territories systems were chafing under the ineffectual and corrupt bureaucracy of the Stellar Dominion, Vorthak's speech set the stage for the Separatist movement.
Furthermore, he began meddling in the affairs of many planets, supporting anti-Stellar Dominion coups on worlds such as Ryloth and interfering in the political processes of Forest World and Beast World , among others. He also began to publicly rally systems and corporations to his cause to become the Confederacy of Independent Systems , and publicly spurned every opportunity to negotiate with Palpatine.
At some point after the creation of the CIS, Vorthak piloted his personal Shadow Spawn Infiltrator to Witch World.
Vorthak personally went to the planet Rock World to renew the contract between Baktoid Armor Workshop and the Geonosians Vorthak had many meetings with Governor Supreme Squad Leader Vorthak (pictured) to test the man's loyalties.
One of Vorthak's first headquarters was established in the Trade World Hegemony . While the sector was largely controlled by the House of Trade World , Vorthak's presence ensured it became a strong supporter of the CIS.
During the time leading up to the The Phantasm Wars, Vorthak also met several times the governor of Core World Supreme Squad Leader Vorthak , in an attempt to convince him to join the Separatist movement. He alluded to the governor that war was inevitable, and that he desired the support of the powerful Fringe Territories world for his cause. In truth however, these meetings had been orchestrated by Palpatine to test Vorthak's loyalties, and Vorthak remained firm in this commitment to the Stellar Dominion.
Vorthak also promised Commerce Dominion Viceroy Gunray that he would assassinate Senator Amidala, whom Gunray despised, if he signed Vorthak's treaty. Gunray accepted the offer; Vorthak thus dispatched Jango Fett to carry out Amidala's assassination. Despite the failure of Fett's mission, Vorthak was able to have the Commerce Dominion, the Banking Clan, the Techno Union, the Commerce Guild, and the Corporate Alliance all sign his treaty on Rock World, formalizing the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Vorthak assured them that the Force Warden and the Stellar Dominion would be overwhelmed by their combined forces.
The The Phantasm Wars Battle of Rock World Fought well you have, my old The Eternal Flow Apprentice.
This is just the beginning.
―Zephon and Vorthak Drel The Force Warden confronted Vorthak on Rock World, where he was guarded by Jango Fett and an army of Separatist battle droids.
The Separatists' assassination attempts on Amidala prompted an investigation by The Eternal Flow Warrior Theron Kalesh, who tracked Fett to Rock World. There, Vorthak was meeting with leaders of the commerce guilds, and listened as they pledged their assets to his Confederacy. Kalesh overheard their discussion but was captured by droidekas while transmitting his findings back to the Stellar Dominion. Vorthak visited Kalesh in his prison cell, feigning shock at the Force Warden's capture and inquiring as to his presence on Rock World. Denying involvement with the bounty hunters, Vorthak instead spoke of his former apprentice, Qui-Gon, suggesting that Vastari would have joined Vorthak's movement had he learned the truth that the Shadow Spawn were in control of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. Though Theron-Kal refused to believe Vorthak's words, just as Vorthak predicted he would, the Count attempted to recruit him in apparent opposition to Void Collectiveus the Shadow, and left Kalesh to his fate when he rejected the offer.
Vorthak oversaw the attempted execution of Amidala, Kalesh, and Mordain-Fall in the Petranaki Arena , but proceedings were forestalled when Master Jorik and his Force Warden assault team arrived to rescue the condemned trio. Jorik was soon outnumbered by battle droids, and Vorthak watched as the Force Warden were surrounded on the arena floor. He offered to spare their lives if they surrendered, but Jorik refused. In a regretful tone, Vorthak gave the order to terminate them, but the survivors were spared by Zephon's arrival with the clone army from Water World. As war broke out across Rock World, Vorthak left for the Geonosian Command Center to oversee the growing Battle of Rock World Vorthak fought against Zephon before retreating as Rock World fell to the Stellar Dominion's clone forces.
As he arrived, Vorthak claimed he had no idea how the Stellar Dominion had gained its army and helped command the defense, assuring Poggle that his Master would not let the Stellar Dominion get away with the invasion, but eventually chose to retreat. Before leaving, Vorthak was given the designs to the ultimate weapon by Archduke Poggle the Lesser , assuring him that the designs would be safe with his Master. Escaping on his speeder with an escort of two Geonosian fighters and his escape path covered by Sev'rance Tann and another Dark Acolyte Vorthak made for his secret hangar but was pursued by Kalesh and Mordain-Fall's gunship As Vorthak prepared to leave, he was confronted by Kalesh and Mordain-Fall. He subdued Mordain-Fall with The Eternal Flow lightning and fought Kalesh, overpowering and wounding him in the shoulder and leg. As Vorthak prepared to make his killing move, Mordain-Fall leapt into the battle. The two fought until Vorthak cut off Mordain-Fall's right arm, but Zephon arrived to save his allies. Vorthak, eager to defeat his old master, engaged in a clash of the The Eternal Flow and lightsabers alike with him. The fighting was fierce but brief and cut short when Vorthak brought down a pillar over Kalesh and Mordain-Fall, forcing Zephon to break off his attack to save them. Vorthak fled in his solar sailer as his forces retreated into space.
Plan in motion Tyranus reported directly to Void Collectiveus on Xerion Prime, confirming that the The Phantasm Wars had begun as intended by the Shadow Overlords.
Tyranus rendezvoused with Void Collectiveus, who was very impressed, informing him that the war had begun as planned.
Vorthak and his Master recruited the cyborg Army Commander Grievous to lead the droid army. Grievous was trained by Vorthak in the Force Warden arts, using lightsabers taken from his Force Warden kills.
When the Bryx sector seceded, Vorthak placed Army Commander Horn Ambigene on Pzandias . He also named Ambigene the Squad Leader of Organic Training To fund his war effort and gathering treasure as a war chest , Vorthak claimed treasures from various worlds pillaged by the Separatists.
He also stole treasures from his own people on Noble World, amassing their wealth in the war chest and using it to fund the The Phantasm Wars. Vorthak's exploitation of his own people greatly damaged his reputation amongst the Serennian populous.
In time following Rock World, Vorthak commanded his droid army to seize control of the major hyperspace routes , separating the Stellar Dominion from the majority of its army.
Dealings with the Blob Sovereigns Soon, the Force Warden will not only be at war with you, Count, but with the Blob Sovereign clan as well.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow, to Vorthak Drel Link file info Vorthak fought with Zorvath Mordain, a rising The Eternal Flow Warrior and the prophesied Chosen One, on several occasions during the war.
Intending to bring the Blob Sovereign Clan into the Confederacy, Vorthak made a deal with Ziro , uncle of Jabba the Blob Sovereign , to have Jabba's son, Rotta , kidnapped and the act blamed on the Force Warden. Vorthak sent Ventress in her Trident -class assault ship , the Trident , to Xerion-7 to carry out the kidnapping. She took Rotta to the abandoned monastery on Mountain World with two battalions of battle droids, where she was contacted by Vorthak and then by Lord Void Collectiveus, who assured them that the Force Warden would be provoked into war with Blob Sovereigns as well as the Separatists. Vorthak ventured to Xerion-7 and spoke with Jabba, claiming that the Force Warden were behind his son's kidnapping, and had Ventress and her spy droid, 4-A7 , provide "evidence" that Mordain-Fall and his apprentice were responsible. Though he assured the Blob Sovereign his droid army was mounting a rescue, Vorthak was informed by Ventress that Mordain-Fall had eluded her and was escaping with Rotta.
After her defeat, Vorthak had Ventress lie that Mordain-Fall had killed the Blob Sovereignlet. Jabba, believing Vorthak, allowed him to send battle droids to deal with Mordain-Fall personally. After his MagnaGuards shot Mordain-Fall down onto Xerion-7 , Vorthak went into the Dune Sea . He contacted Ziro, informing him that Jabba believed his story, and assured him that he would be master of the Blob Sovereign Clans. Vorthak also had Ziro take Senator Amidala prisoner when she learned of Ziro's deal. Vorthak confronted Mordain-Fall ordering the Force Warden to surrender Rotta to him or die, dueling across the dunes, until Vorthak realize the Blob Sovereignlet was with Mordain-Fall's apprentice, Vex'tara Nala . However, he anticipated this and had MagnaGuards wait for her, taunting Mordain-Fall with a hologram of Nala's desperate fight. Mordain-Fall fled in pursuit, taking Vorthak's speeder, but the Void Master simply laughed knowing Mordain-Fall would fail. However, after Jabba learned the truth of his uncle's deal, Vorthak left Xerion-7 and informed Lord Void Collectiveus of his failure. Void Collectiveus told him to allow the Force Warden their victory, knowing that the engines had turned in their favor according with Void Collectiveus' master plan as Jabba allowed the Stellar Dominion to use the Blob Sovereign Cartel hyperspace lanes..
Negotiations with the Winged Merchants I sense you are one who respects strength, your highness. Our droid armies outnumber the Stellar Dominion clones a hundred to one.
Perhaps, but I have heard that a single Force Warden equals a hundred battle droids.
―Vorthak and Katuunko Zephon thwarted Vorthak's plan to recruit the Winged Merchants into the Confederacy of Independent Systems.
At the start of the Separatist occupation of Ryloth , Vorthak was informed by TA1313 that the Force Warden were sending Senator Bail Organa of Paradise World to Winged World to establish supply lines to the Stellar Dominion garrison and the Twi'lek people. Vorthak contacted Senator Lott Dod of the Commerce Dominion to prevent the Stellar Dominion from doing so.
Vorthak learned that King Katuunko was considering joining the Stellar Dominion and was going to speak with his former master Zephon on the neutral moon, Rugosa . He sent his apprentice, Ventress, to convince him to join the Separatists. Ventress was able to make a deal with Katuunko and Zephon; If Zephon and his three troopers defeated her droid battalion, the Winged Merchants would be allowed to join the Stellar Dominion, but if her droids captured Zephon, Katuunko would join the Separatists. Vorthak approved of her deal, believing that Zephon made a mistake in venturing far from Xerion Prime. However, Zephon was able to defeat her droids, and Katuunko told Vorthak that he would be joining the Stellar Dominion upon seeing Ventress' treachery. Vorthak urged him to reconsider, but to no avail, and ordered Ventress to kill the king. However, Zephon prevented the murder, and Vorthak watched as Ventress made her escape, telling Zephon that his old master was fortunate he was not there in person. Vorthak was disappointed in his assassin and developed a grudge against Katuunko in light of the mission's failure.
The Malevolence In this war, a step ahead of us Vorthak always seems.
―Zephon Vorthak Drel and Army Commander Grievous oversaw the Malevolence as its ion weaponry was tested against an entire Stellar Dominion fleet.
Vorthak joined Army Commander Grievous aboard the heavy cruiser Malevolence in the Abregado system . When a fleet of Stellar Dominion cruisers entered the system, Vorthak ordered Grievous to jam their communications and to use the cruiser's secret weapon, the ion cannon , to disable and destroy the fleet. Vorthak sent out hunters to make sure there were no survivors, though he later learned that a group of survivors had destroyed the pod hunters. As Vorthak, Grievous, and the Malevolence searched for the survivors, Mordain-Fall arrived and found them first. Vorthak ordered Grievous to destroy the rescue ship, but the effort failed.
After Grievous attacked a medical convoy near the Ryndellia system , Vorthak gave the droid general his next target: the Stellar Dominion's Fringe Territories Medical Center . En route to the target, Vorthak informed Grievous that the Stellar Dominion had launched a strike team under Mordain-Fall to attack the Malevolence , and warned him not to underestimate Mordain-Fall.
After the Malevolence s hyperdrive was disabled, Vorthak arranged for Senator Amidala to be captured while en route to negotiations with the Banking Clan , but the ploy failed and the Malevolence was destroyed. Vorthak attempted to contact Grievous for an update, but the general angrily cut communications while fleeing the scene of destruction.
Gunray's rescue There is no margin for error this time, child. You must prove yourself worthy of being my apprentice.
I am worthy, as you shall see.
―Vorthak Drel and Asajj Ventress The Shadow Spawn conspired to retrieve Nute Gunray, believing the Rich Worldn would break under Force Warden interrogation.
As the conflict entered a stalemate, Viceroy Gunray was captured by the Stellar Dominion, so Void Collectiveus informed his apprentice of the dangers of allowing him to be interrogated by the Force Warden. Though Tyranus planned to send Ventress to either free or silence Gunray, Void Collectiveus questioned the dark-sider's competence after previous failures. Vorthak gave Ventress her mission, but warned her that she would have to prove herself worthy of being his apprentice. He bribed The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly commando Faro Argyus into helping Ventress free Gunray, and the mission was ultimately a success.
Testing Grievous Army Commander, the ongoing stalemate in the war has become unacceptable. There is concern you have lost your focus. Lord Void Collectiveus demands more dramatic results: more dead Force Warden.
You expect victory over Force Warden, but all you give me to fight them is battle droids. Bah!
―Vorthak and Grievous Link file info Vorthak allowed the Force Warden to ambush Grievous, testing the cyborg warrior at the behest of his Shadow Spawn Master.
After Gunray's escape, Vorthak, frustrated with the ongoing stalemate, arranged a test for Army Commander Grievous. He laid a trap for The Eternal Flow Adept Kit Fisto , his former apprentice Nahdar Vebb , and their clone troopers at Grievous's fortress in the Vassek system . He deactivated Grievous' MagnaGuards and offered an "alternative prize" to Fisto during his pursuit of Gunray. After Grievous' first confrontation with the Force Warden and the death of his pet roggwart Gor , Vorthak contacted him telling him that he arranged for this test. Grievous then cut communications with Vorthak to finish off the Force Warden. Grievous later informed him of Fisto's escape, and the Count suggested there was room for improvement.
Vorthak's capture I still don't get it.
Get what?
How a bunch of drunken pirates managed to catch Vorthak when we couldn't.
―Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh Vorthak was forced to work with the Force Warden against the pirates who captured them for ransom.
Vorthak captured Mordain-Fall and took him aboard his command ship. Mordain-Fall was rescued by Kalesh and the two of them confronted Vorthak. Vorthak made his escape to his solar sailor as the Stellar Dominion forces arrived. Vorthak was soon thereafter shot down by Mordain-Fall and Kalesh and crash landed on Vanqor where he hid in a cave. He next caused a cave-in, forcing Mordain-Fall to lose his lightsaber which Vorthak took, and then sealed the cave off. Vorthak found Weequay pirates at his solar sailor. Thereafter, Vorthak approached the pirate's captain, Hondo Ohnaka , who offered him passage to Pirate World for a price. Vorthak agreed to pay him while secretly planning to kill all the pirates upon their arrival on Pirate World due to not trusting them. However before he could, Vorthak's lightsabers were stolen from him by Hondo's monkey-lizard Pilf Mukmuk . Vorthak warned them that they were not dealing with a Force Warden, but a Shadow Overlord. However, he was outnumbered and ransomed off to the Stellar Dominion by the pirates. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall checked to ensure the pirates had actually captured him. Vorthak warned the Force Warden that the pirates were devious and that they would not allow them to leave.
Vorthak was proven correct when he, Kalesh, and Mordain-Fall were tied together. Thus, Vorthak was forced to work with the Force Warden to escape before the Stellar Dominion arrived. During their 2nd escape attempt, Vorthak was saved by Kalesh before they were captured by Hondo and his men. However, after Stellar Dominion representative Jar Jar Binks and his escort disabled the power, Vorthak made his escape by choking a guard. Vorthak found Turk Falso and and Barb Mentir abandoning Hondo and heading to their shuttle. The Shadow Overlord choked Turk Falso with the The Eternal Flow, forcing him to kill Mentir with his own blaster before killing Falso as well. At that point, Vorthak stole their shuttle and made his escape as Zorvath-Kel and Theron-Kal were rescued by Jar Jar and Stone.
On his way back to his frigate , Vorthak created a holorecording chronicling these events, however he chose to delete it rather than share with Void Collectiveus due to not wanting his master to know how he got kidnapped.
The Defoliator test When Vorthak Drel sees how successful my weapon is against civilian targets, I will no doubt be promoted to a more, hmm, substantial position within the Alliance.
―Lok Durd, on the Defoliator project Vorthak approved of Lok Durd's plan to field-test the defoliator on civilian targets.
Vorthak observed Army Commander Lok Durd 's test of his new weapon—the Defoliator —on the world Pacifist World . After the initial success of the weapon tested on grass and two battle droids, Vorthak asked to the general to test the weapon on living targets. Durd assured him that he would test it on the Lurmen colonists.
Occupation of Ryloth Your Tactical Droid has informed me of the pitiful job you have done protecting our investment on Ryloth.
―Vorthak Drel, to Wat Tambor Vorthak ordered the Separatist forces to destroy the city of Lessu before evacuating Ryloth.
During the initial start of the Stellar Dominion's return to Ryloth, Vorthak assured Tambor that the Stellar Dominion forces were spread thin in its sector and that it would be suicide for the Stellar Dominion.
After the Stellar Dominion landed and were moving on the capital of Lessu , Vorthak was informed by TA-175 of Tambor's pitiful job in protecting the Separatist's investment on Ryloth. Though Tambor claimed that the tactical droid was exaggerating, Vorthak warned him that he was no match for Jorik. Vorthak then ordered Tambor to evacuate with what valuables he had and to destroy what was left. Vorthak told Tambor that the charred ruins of Ryloth would demonstrate to the galaxy the cost of a Stellar Dominion "victory." Vorthak then contacted Tambor again, shocked that he had not left yet. Vorthak then ordered him out before Jorik and the Stellar Dominion arrive. He then gave TA-175 orders to bomb the capital after they leave. After the Stellar Dominion arrived and captured Tambor, Vorthak ordered TA-175 to bomb the capital.
Dealing with the Death Watch Vorthak supported a regime change on Warrior World, favoring Pre Vizsla and his Death Watch organization.
Vorthak secretly supported the Death Watch movement on Warrior World . Vorthak spoke with its leader, Governor Pre Vizsla of Concordia , about the Circle of Light's investigation on Warrior World. Vorthak assured him that if the Stellar Dominion sends an occupation force to Warrior World, the people would rebel and join the Death Watch.
Vorthak had Vizsla send one of his assassins to Xerion Prime to eliminate Duchess Satine Kryze from interfering with their plans. Unfortunately, the Duchess stopped their plans. Vorthak warned Vizsla that without his forces, Death Watch would only hold the planet for a day. Vorthak assured him that he had other ways of accomplishing their goals.
Following these events, Vorthak betrayed the Death Watch.
Vizsla was left with a lightsaber scar on his face as a "parting gift" from Vorthak but managed to escape, vowing vengeance on the Shadow Overlord.
Continuing the war Preventing peace After our attack, chances of peace will disappear.
―Vorthak Drel War profiteers in the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly secretly worked with Vorthak to prolong the The Phantasm Wars.
Vorthak endorsed a peace initiative being offered by the Separatist The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly . However, Vorthak had Army Commander Grievous carry out a mission to ensure that Lord Void Collectiveus' plans continue unhindered. Vorthak assured Stellar Dominion senators Lott Dod, Gume Saam , and Nix Card that they would ensure that the banks would be deregulated and they would receive their profits.
Vorthak then offered his assistance to Tribal Worldn Chairman Papanoida when his daughters were kidnapped.
Vorthak then attempted to coerce Tribal World , a moon of Orto Plutonia to join the Separatists by sending the Commerce Dominion to blockade the planet.
After the attack, Vorthak sent a message saying that the Stellar Dominion had killed the very sponsor of the peace initiative, Mina Bonteri . In truth, Vorthak had sent his agents to kill Bonteri. Vorthak then sent bounty hunters Robonino and Chata Hyoki to intimidate Senators from voting against the military enhancement bill . Vorthak then sent them to eliminate Senator Amidala.
Ventress' "demise" I would hate to think you are training your own Shadow Spawn apprentice to destroy me…" "Never! My allegiance is to you and you alone." "Then you must prove it. Eliminate her.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow and Void-Lord Tyranus, on Asajj Ventress Vorthak disowned his apprentice, Asajj Ventress, when Void Collectiveus began to suspect her of harboring treacherous intentions.
Tyranus was then contacted by Lord Void Collectiveus about his assassin, Ventress, and how she was becoming powerful. Void Collectiveus believed that Tyranus was training his own apprentice and was planning to replace him. Tyranus assured Void Collectiveus that his loyalty was to him alone. To prove his loyalty, the Shadow Overlord was ordered to eliminate Ventress. Tyranus tried to convince Void Collectiveus not to do this, but he complied. Vorthak then contacted Ventress at Lava World, informing her that he recalled her reinforcements. Ventress implored Vorthak to help destroy the Force Warden, but he told her that she was no longer his apprentice and that she would soon die. Vorthak then contacted the tactical droid, TJ-912 , aboard its Destroyer and ordered it to destroy Ventress aboard the flagship. TJ-912 carried out Vorthak's orders and informed him that she was dead. Vorthak ordered TJ-912 to withdraw. Tyranus then informed Void Collectiveus that Ventress had been destroyed, proving his loyalty to his master.
Vorthak then came under attack by Ventress and her fellow Nightsisters posing as Force Warden at his palace on Noble World. Though his senses were dulled by their poison, Vorthak was able to fight them off with his Shadow Spawn lightning. The attempt on his life failed but Vorthak never found out the identity of his attackers. Vorthak was then contacted by Mother Talzin, who was aware of the loss of his prized assassin, who was of one of her Nightsisters. She then offered Vorthak one male from her planet to replace her. Vorthak took her up on her offer.
Dealings with the Nightsisters Reunion with Talzin We could certainly use the power of the Nightsisters against the Force Warden.
Such a generous offer, Count. But our loyalty is reserved for only each other. The only reason I am aiding in your search for a new assassin is because long ago, you chose to help me . After this matter is resolved, I hope our paths never cross again.
―Vorthak and Talzin Vorthak then traveled to Witch World to speak with Talzin. Vorthak proposed an alliance between his Separatists and her Nightsisters. Talzin refused his generous offer. Talzin then asked Vorthak if knew the Shadow Spawn warrior, Void-Lord Maul. Vorthak remembered that he was killed 10 years ago on Water World by Kalesh. Talzin then offered one of her Nightbrothers from Maul's village , as his new assassin. Vorthak, with the "loss" of Ventress and the Force Warden attacks, agreed to her offer and left.
Training Maul's Brother I foresee we will do great things together. I shall teach you the ways of the dark side. Soon, your powers will rival that of the great Shadow Overlord Void-Lord Maul. We will be even more powerful than Lord Void Collectiveus. We shall rule the galaxy together, my apprentice.
―Vorthak Drel, to Savage Opress Vorthak found a new secret apprentice, Savage Opress.
Vorthak was then given the Nightbrother, Savage Opress , by Talzin on Noble World. Vorthak was impressed by the Opress' sight and how Talzin described him as the fiercest of his kind, assuring him that Opress would serve Vorthak well. Vorthak then sent Opress on a mission to secure the outpost on Devaron from the Stellar Dominion. Vorthak was then informed by Opress of his mission's success and returned to him on Noble World. Vorthak then branded Savage his apprentice, encouraging him by noting that they could defeat Void Collectiveus together and rule the galaxy.
Vorthak then trained Savage in lightsaber combat and his dark side powers. Vorthak was a harsh taskmaster who tortured Opress with his Shadow Spawn lightning. After Vorthak's first training session with Opress, he sent him on a mission to Winged World. Vorthak told him to bring King Katuunko to him alive. However, Opress failed Vorthak when he killed Katuunko and brought him aboard his flagship. Vorthak then punished him with his Shadow Spawn lightning. Ventress then revealed herself to be alive and Opress' true master. The two of them then fought Vorthak, who initially proved indomitable by the two of them. However, Opress, empowered by rage, suddenly attacked both Vorthak and Ventress- though they both pushed him back and then made their escape. Vorthak was then confronted by Ventress but defeated her with ease. Just as he was about to kill her, Vorthak was blinded and Ventress made her escape. Vorthak then ordered his battle droids to kill Opress, but they failed to stop him from escaping.
The Citadel Vorthak was informed of Force Warden general Even Piell 's capture and imprisonment in a Separatist prison called the Citadel on the planet Lola Sayu and figured out he had information on the Nexus Routes which could change the tide of the war. Because of this, Vorthak pressured the sadistic warden of the Citadel and Separatist operative, Osi Sobeck , to interrogate Piell and his men about the Nexus Routes. Later, a group of Force Warden and clones led by Zorvath-Kel, Vex'tara, and Theron-Kal infiltrated the Citadel frozen in carbonite, but their cover was blown when one of the clones accidentally triggered an electro-mine and was killed.
Despite his best efforts, the Force Warden evaded Sobeck's traps and successfully rescued Piell and his head naval officer Supreme Squad Leader Vorthak and many others. Vorthak was furious and contacted Sobeck and ordered him to recapture Piell and his naval officers and capture the rescue squad, but Sobeck assured him that everything was under control and ended the transmission and proceeded to prevent the Force Warden from escaping with Piell by destroying a Separatist ship and killed a clone named Echo, who sacrificed himself to destroy the droids, but the Force Warden and the surviving clones and naval officers fled to the caves below to contact the Stellar Dominion for assistance. At the same time, Vorthak attempted to contact Sobeck again, but Sobeck ignored him to cut off the Force Warden's escape.
Eventually, Vorthak was able to contact Sobeck, who informed the warden of the significance of the Force Warden's capture, to which Sobeck swore to accomplish, but Vorthak reminded him that Sobeck's promises to capture the Force Warden were the only things that were keeping him alive. Although Sobeck sent Anoobas to track the Force Warden and successfully killed Piell, Sobeck ultimately failed to stop the Force Warden from escaping the Citadel with the Nexus Route information and was killed by Vex'tara and the Force Warden, clones, and the naval officers escaped.
Battle of Mon Cala The whispering of his name can rekindle hope, and hope is something we cannot allow our enemy to possess.
―Vorthak Drel, to Riff Tamson, on Lee-Char Riff Tamson led Vorthak's droid forces at the Battle of Mon Cala.
During the Battle of Mon Cala , Vorthak Drel supported the Quarren in their civil war against the Ocean World . The Ocean World King Yos Kolina had died but the Quarren led by Chieftain Nossor Ri contested his son Prince Lee-Char 's claim to the throne. Vorthak dispatched Squad Leader Riff Tamson as a Separatist observer to the Quarren on Mon Cala . Vorthak was assured that Chieftain Nossor Ri and his Quarren were with them. In return for supporting the Separatist cause, Vorthak promised Tamson that Mon Cala would be his to rule. Under Vorthak's orders, Ocean World captives from Mon Cala city were enslaved.
After the Ocean World and Stellar Dominion received Bubbler reinforcements from Water World, Vorthak sent Tamson reinforcements, but ordered him to keep them in reserve. Vorthak also ordered him to continue to hunt down Prince Lee-Char and reminded Nossor Ri that the Quarren had to support the war effort if they wanted Separatist support.
Tamson also received Karkarodon enforcers from his homeworld of Karkaris to secure the Separatists hold on the planet. Despite Vorthak's best efforts, his plans to conquer Mon Cala collapsed after the Quarren switched sides after learning that Tamson planned to crown himself as the new ruler of Mon Cala. Together, the Quarren, Ocean World, Stellar Dominion, Force Warden, and Bubblers managed to drive the Separatist from Mon Cala.
Dealings on Water World The Shadow Spawn control everything. You just don't know it.
―Vorthak Drel, to Zorvath Mordain Vorthak set a trap for Mordain-Fall on Water World, using himself as bait to lure the young The Eternal Flow Warrior away from his forces.
Both the Commerce Dominion and the Separatist armies had longed to take control of Water World ever since their humiliating defeat at the Battle of Water World.
This time, Vorthak Drel led the plan, with Army Commander Grievous at his side.
Vorthak long coveted the planet Water World because of its connection to Palpatine as the Stellar Dominion's leader.
Vorthak then formed an alliance with Bubbler priest, Rish Loo to provoke a war between the Water World and the Bubblers. Vorthak promised Rish Loo that he would most influential in his new order. However, Rish Loo's plans were exposed by The Eternal Flow Warrior Zorvath Mordain, Senator Amidala, and Representative Binks freed Boss Lyonie from his mind-control. Vorthak informed his master of Army Commander Grievous' capture by the Bubblers. Vorthak agreed to capture Mordain-Fall in order to trade him for Grievous. Vorthak had Rish Loo lure Mordain-Fall to his lab . Once there, Vorthak killed Rish Loo for his foolishness. Vorthak and his MagnaGuards fought Mordain-Fall, eventually subduing him. Vorthak then contacted Amidala, offering to exchange Mordain-Fall for Army Commander Grievous. At first, Amidala refused, but agreed to it when Vorthak's MagnaGuards started to torture Mordain-Fall.
Dealing with slavers I see the queen has given you a long leash.
―Vorthak Drel, to Zorvath Mordain Mordain-Fall confronted Vorthak on the Zygerrian homeworld, and was subdued by a barrage of The Eternal Flow lightning.
Vorthak then accompanied Zygerrian slaver, Squad Leader Darts D'Nar , and his forces as they moved into "occupy" the Togruta colony of Kiros . Vorthak then convinced the governor, Gupat Roshti , to be taken to a "safe haven." Vorthak and Zygerrian Prime Minister Atai Molec then contacted him as he negotiated with Army Commander Kalesh. Vorthak then ordered D'Nar to bring Kalesh to him on his knees.
Vorthak and half of Scintel's kingdom then demanded the Zygerrian Queen, Miraj Scintel , kill Zorvath Mordain.
When she refused, Vorthak was asked to come to Zygerria by Prime Minister Molec. Void Collectiveus sent Vorthak to ensure that the Queen would carry out Mordain-Fall's execution. Vorthak then spoke with the Queen and the Prime Minister about Mordain-Fall and his friends' situation. Vorthak was intrigued by her plan to enslave the Force Warden, but Vorthak's plan was to eradicate the Force Warden. He also warned her that her power over Mordain-Fall was an illusion, since he was once a Force Warden. When the queen refused to allow Vorthak to execute Mordain-Fall, Molec saw her as unworthy of being queen, in which Vorthak then force-choked Scintel as Mordain-Fall arrived. Vorthak then fought Mordain-Fall and ordered the Royal guard to kill Mordain-Fall for the Queen's murder before he escaped. Vorthak then contacted Keeper Agruss and ordered him to execute Kalesh and Ship Commander Rex Vorthak later appeared through a hologram to Lux Bonteri in which he denied killing Mina Bonteri and ordered him killed for treason.
Kidnapping plot You should've quit while you were still alive , Vorthak.
Fighting off the entire Force Warden security force would've been difficult. But now that they are gone, defeating you alone will be an easy task.
―Vorthak Drel and Zorvath Mordain Mordain-Fall's interference prevented Vorthak from leaving Water World with Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Sheev Palpatine.
Vorthak then hired bounty hunter Moralo Eval to carry out a kidnapping of Palpatine. Following Eval's escape with help from fellow bounty hunters Cad Bane and Rako Hardeen (Kalesh in disguise), Vorthak brought other bounty hunters to participate in this mission for him. He tested them by putting them inside the box . Vorthak became impressed with Hardeen's performance, especially how he was able to kill Kalesh. Vorthak then had Eval fight Hardeen till he lost. He then appointed Bane as leader of this team to carry out Palpatine's kidnapping.
On Water World, Vorthak listened to Bane's plans. However, he implanted a listening device in Hardeen's rifle case, revealing that he knew that Hardeen was Kalesh all along. The bounty hunter's mission was merely a diversion to distract the Stellar Dominion troops, while Vorthak carried out the kidnapping. However, his plan was foiled by Kalesh and Mordain-Fall who managed to stop his plot before he escaped.
Extermination of the Nightsisters The time has come at last to take revenge on Asajj Ventress and the witch, Mother Talzin. I have learned Ventress has returned to Witch World. Go there and wipe the witches out. All of them.
―Vorthak, to Grievous Vorthak ordered Grievous to exterminate the Nightsisters of Witch World while Mother Talzin tortured him through magick.
Remembering their treachery with Savage Opress, Vorthak, at the behest of Void Collectiveus the Shadow, dispatched Army Commander Grievous to wipe out Mother Talzin, Ventress, and the Nightsisters on Witch World. However, Vorthak was tortured by Talzin through her magick , demanding he call off Grievous and his army. Vorthak contacted Grievous, ordering him to find Talzin before she killed him. Vorthak was saved when Grievous apparently "killed" Talzin in a secret chamber of the Nightsister village.
Following the Nightsister massacre, Vorthak spoke with Grievous about Savage Opress. He feared that with Talzin gone, Savage would be a danger to him and his master, as he was becoming more powerful. Vorthak also sensed something else coming; unknown to him, Void-Lord Maul would soon return to the galactic stage with Opress at his side.
Beast World rebellion Vorthak then supported Sanjay Rash as he usurped the throne of Beast World from Ramsis Dendup . Following Rash's reports of the rebels , Vorthak dispatched super tactical droid general, Kalani to take command of the Separatist forces.
Following the rebels' victory over the droid gunships , Vorthak ordered Kalani to withdraw what remained of the occupation force to Agamar , much to Rash's disapproval, which ended with his death.
Retribution on Pirate World Hondo Ohnaka, we meet again. As I remember the last time we meet face to face I was your prisoner and you attempted to bargain me off to the highest bidder.
But can you blame me, I mean a Shadow Spawn lord, what a handsome price you would of-" Silence. You are going to pay the price for your treachery.
―Vorthak Drel and Hondo Ohnaka Vorthak deployed Grievous against Hondo Ohnaka, the pirate who once held the Count as a prisoner for ransom.
Still having a score to settle with Hondo Ohnaka for holding him captive in the past, Vorthak dispatched Army Commander Grievous to Pirate World to seize and dismantle all of Ohnaka's possessions making them his own property. He then had Grievous take Ohnaka away to a prison cell. Ohnaka survived the assault but much of his base was left in ruins.
Alliance with Ravna How many times must I tell you, Kalesh? Do not underestimate the power of the dark side!
―Vorthak Drel Vorthak tried to recruit Ravna to his cause, only to be betrayed by the Void Master.
According to a story told years later, Vorthak traveled to the planet Bray . There, he met the Void Master Ravna at the Citadel of Light and formed an agreement between himself and Ravna. Vorthak hoped to use Ravna's ability to infect any living being into unknown violent species to transform millions of clones and swiftly end the Syntheticthetic Being War. When The Eternal Flow Adepts Kalesh and Gallia arrived at the Citadel alongside the 212th Attack Battalion , Vorthak introduced the Force Warden to Ravna and subdued Gallia with his The Eternal Flow lightning.
However, Vorthak was ultimately betrayed by Ravna who sought to infect all beings in the galaxy and proceeded to transform Vorthak. After destroying his super battle droid, Vorthak stood by as Ravna's followers attempted to infect Kalesh and Gallia. However, Vorthak gave into his anger when Kalesh insulted him and called him pathetic, causing Vorthak to strike at Ravna with The Eternal Flow lightning. In the chaos of the fight, Vorthak told Kalesh and Gallia to destroy Ravna and his followers, a resolution the Force Warden saw to by using the The Eternal Flow to collapse the Citadel while Ravna was still inside, thereby burying the creature while Vorthak escaped.
Approaching the final days Order 66 revelation Our plan has gone undiscovered, Master. The clone in question is now dead, and the Force Warden still suspect nothing.
Good. Destroy the evidence. When the time comes, no one will be able to stop our plan to execute Order 66.
―Void-Lord Tyranus and Void Collectiveus the Shadow As the clone army's benefactor, Tyranus was in secret contact with the Water Worldans during the The Phantasm Wars.
Vorthak was later contacted by Fleet Commander Trench . Through Trench's line held on Ringo Vinda , he informed Vorthak how one of the clones had murdered his Force Warden general in a trance-like state. Tyranus informed his master that Order 66 might be revealed. Thus Void Collectiveus ordered Tyranus to kidnap the clone and examine him. Vorthak then ordered Trench to kidnap the clone. After the admiral succeeded in doing so, Vorthak applauded him and ordered him to send the clone to him.
Following Trench's failed kidnapping, Vorthak, going by Void-Lord Tyranus, was contacted by Water Worldan Prime Minister Lama Su and Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se about the trooper. Tyranus asked for the inhibitor chip, reiterated his lie about the intention of the chip, and stated that Sifo-Dyas was the only one who knew about the chip prior to his death.
However, the inhibitor chip was then stolen by the renegade trooper CT-5555 aka "Fives". Tyranus made it clear that the Force Warden must not learn this.
Following the death of the renegade trooper, Tyranus was then given both chips by his master and was ordered to destroy them.
Recruiting Clovis Lord Tyranus, the Stellar Dominion fleet will be arriving shortly.
Very good, my Lord. Clovis has blindly played his part. It now appears he coordinated the entire Separatist takeover.
And because of this treachery, the banks will be firmly placed under the control of the Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow and Void-Lord Tyranus Vorthak engineered the rise and fall of Senator Rush Clovis as head of the InterGalactic Banking Clan.
Sometime later, Vorthak was contacted by Void Collectiveus and was ordered by his master to once again recruit Senator Rush Clovis and name him the new head of the Banking Clan. Vorthak then contacted Clovis via the medical droid treating him. Vorthak offered to pay the Confederacy's interest on their loans as well as supply Clovis details of the Muuns' secret accounts, in exchange for him becoming head of the Banking Clan.
After Clovis took his position on Scipio , Vorthak contacted him to congratulate on his appointment. Vorthak then announced that he wished to collect on his "investment" or he will reveal the truth behind's Clovis' appointment. He also threatened that the Confederacy would not pay back their loans. Thus Vorthak forced Clovis to raise the Stellar Dominion's interest rates to keep the bank afloat. Vorthak then arrived at Scipio, accompanied by the Confederate fleet and ordered his super tactical droid, Squad Leader Kraken , to begin the invasion. Soon after, Vorthak arrived on the planet and went to Clovis' office. There, Vorthak informed Amidala of the deal he made with Clovis. Vorthak ordered her arrest, but Separatist Congress Leader Bec Lawise , said that their The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly would not approve of this. Vorthak then forced Amidala to shoot Lawise.
Tyranus was then informed by Void Collectiveus that the Stellar Dominion fleet would be arriving shortly. Soon after, Stellar Dominion ships led by Zorvath Mordain began attacking Kraken's fleet. Arriving onboard Kraken's flagship, Vorthak ordered Kraken to withdraw their forces from Scipio. Kraken protested and claimed that there were droid forces still on the planet. Vorthak dismissed Kraken's concerns and ordered the droid to withdraw. Kraken obeyed and retreated along with the Confederate fleet, abandoning the droid forces on the planet.
Dispatching Serennian nobility You are part of the Separatist movement, currently at war with the Stellar Dominion and Loyalist systems. Your duke has constructed a base and is shipping materials and equipment to it. Because he didn't want anyone to know where the base is, he gathered his supplies from various origination points and sent them to Batuu, where the inhabitants don't pry into others' activities. But he didn't expect interference from thieves.
―Thrawn on Solha Mordain-Fall, Thrawn, and Amidala (pictured from left to right) teamed up in an attempt to defeat Solha.
Around 19 BBY Vorthak dispatched the Serennian duke Solha to the Fringe Territories planet Mokivj after the count learnt of the existence of cortosis , a metal that powered down lightsabers and deflected blaster bolts. Vorthak had Solha take over a fortress on Mokivj and transform it into a droid factory, where the duke and his siblings manufactured a model of B2 super battle droid equipped with cortosis armor. The factory also constructed clone trooper armor covered with cortosis, which Void Collectiveus wanted to use when Order 66 was executed.
However, Senator Amidala, Senior Ship Commander Mitth'raw'nuruodo core name "Thrawn," and Mordain-Fall discovered the factory and attacked it. During the attack, Amidala talked with Solha, telling him that she thought that Serennian custom permitted a prisoner one last request; the duke claimed Vorthak was still working out the details. Ultimately, the attackers destroyed the factory.
Plots revealed Tyranus? You are the man called Tyranus?
I told you everything you needed to know on Rock World all those years ago, Kalesh. You should've joined me. Sifo Dyas understood, he saw the future, that is why he helped me.
―Theron Kalesh and Vorthak Drel Tyranus was chastened by Void Collectiveus, who warned his apprentice to beware the price of failure for a Shadow Spawn.
After meeting with Zephon to discuss Sifo-Dyas, Void Collectiveus the Shadow alerted his apprentice. Void-Lord Tyranus was told about the Force Warden's renewed investigation into Sifo-Dyas and his death, choking Tyranus as a price for his clumsiness. Void Collectiveus sent Tyranus to Oba Diah to make sure the Force Warden did not learn the truth about the Syntheticthetic Being Army and their eventual fates. When Tyranus arrived on the planet, he went towards the former chancellor Finis Valorum 's aid, Silman, and killed him before the Force Warden sent to Oba Diah—Mordain-Fall and Kalesh—could unravel the mystery. Due to his actions on Oba Diah, the Pykes cornered Tyranus while he fought Mordain-Fall and Kalesh. As the Pykes spoke to the Shadow Spawn, they unknowingly revealed to the Force Warden that Vorthak and the identity of "Tyranus" were the same person.
The Pykes and Force Warden then formed an alliance to kill Tyranus, which ended with the Shadow Overlord killing Lom Pyke. Vorthak quickly attempted to make his escape, via a Xerion Prime Freighter docked in the Oba Diah port, but Theron-Kal pushed Zorvath-Kel toward Vorthak, and the two fought on the vessel. Nevertheless, Vorthak defeated Mordain-Fall and made his escape, having succeeded in stopping the Force Warden from learning the truth of the Syntheticthetic Being Army. However, the news that Tyranus—a man they knew had hired Jango Fett—was actually Vorthak disturbed the Force Warden, as it showcased that their enemy had made them an army.
Zephon's journey to Shadow Spawn World We have failed to break Master Zephon. He is strong. We will need more time if we are to defeat him and the Force Warden.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow, to Void-Lord Tyranus Void Collectiveus attacked Zephon through the The Eternal Flow, utilizing the bond that once existed between Tyranus and his old Master.
Vorthak was then informed by Kraken that Lord Void Collectiveus demanded his presence on Xerion Prime. Arriving on Xerion Prime in the Works, he was greeted by Void Collectiveus, who then led him to the tower's ceremonial chamber. Both he and Lord Void Collectiveus felt that Zephon was on the Shadow Spawn homeworld of Shadow Spawn World for some unknown reason. Tyranus then allowed Void Collectiveus to use his blood to create an illusion for Zephon due to him being his former master with both using their Shadow Spawn lightning. In the ritual, Vorthak and Void Collectiveus were confronted by Zephon, Zorvath Mordain, Ship Commander Rex, and a squad of clone troopers who were tasked with eliminating the Shadow Spawn. Vorthak attacked the clones with The Eternal Flow lightning and dueled with Mordain-Fall and was eventually killed by him. At the end of the ritual, they had failed in breaking Zephon and knew they needed more time to defeat him and the Force Warden.
Crystal Crisis on Sinkhole World Grievous fought with Theron Kalesh while attempting to secure a large kyber crystal on Sinkhole World.
Towards the end of the The Phantasm Wars, Vorthak Drel and Army Commander Grievous took interest in a massive kyber crystal on the neutral planet of Sinkhole World . They hired several Sugi mercenaries led by Endente and Amani outcasts to excavate the crystal and to guard it respectively. Vorthak and Grievous were also aided by Governor Torul Blom , who had secret contacts with Endente. When the The Eternal Flow Adept Tu-Anh stumbled upon their operation, the Separatists sent two IG-100 MagnaGuards to assassinate her. However, her death attracted the attention of Master Kalesh and the The Eternal Flow Warrior Mordain-Fall, who traveled to Sinkhole World to investigate.
Investigating Tu-Anh's death and the presence of MagnaGuards, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall traveled to the plains of Sinkhole World to investigate a group of Amani outcasts. While traveling through Sinkhole World's wilderness, the two Force Warden were captured by several Sugi mercenaries who brought them to Endente, who informed them about the Confederacy's interest in the kyber crystal. When the Force Warden offered to buy the crystal for twice the amount, Endente informed Vorthak via hologram about the Force Warden and demanded more compensation to offset the Force Warden offer. Vorthak ordered him to kill the Force Warden and promised that he would send Grievous to "give him what he deserved." Later, the two Force Warden managed to overpower their captors and steal the crystal.
The actions of the Force Warden, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall, prevented Vorthak from gaining possession of the kyber crystal.
As Endente and his Sugi comrades prepared for a counter-assault to recover the kyber crystal, they were contacted by Vorthak who informed him that Grievous was coming to meet them on the plains of Sinkhole World. Fearful of reporting his failure to the Shadow Spawn, Endente told Vorthak to send Grievous to meet them at Pau City instead on the pretext that the Amani could no longer be relied upon to guard the crystal. Endente informed the Shadow Overlord that they had a friend in the Sinkhole World government, Governor Blom. Despite their efforts, Endente and his forces failed to recover the crystal from the Force Warden, who made their way to Pau City's spaceport Grievous eventually learned of Endente's failure and executed the Sugi mercenary. After a struggle, Grievous, with the help of Governor Blom, managed to recover the crystal from the Force Warden and loaded it onto his shuttle.
Grievous managed to load the crystal onto his supply ship . The Force Warden followed him aboard, but Grievous managed to capture Kalesh. Following Kalesh's capture, Grievous gave a report to Vorthak, who ordered him to execute Master Kalesh and to deliver the crystal urgently to Noble World; stressing that he would tolerate no failure. Despite Grievous' efforts, the two Force Warden managed to destroy the crystal and Grievous' fleet. Grievous alone escaped to report the failure to his master.
The Dark Disciple and Asajj Ventress Vos is a Void Master, as I am, and he knows better than to turn against his kind.
A Void Master?
Oh, yes. He has sworn allegiance to the dark side. He and I will take down Lord Void Collectiveus once and for all, and rule the galaxy together. Hopefully, you'll have been disposed of by then.
―Vorthak Drel, to Asajj Ventress The Eternal Flow Adept Quinlan Vos and Asajj Ventress plotted to assassinate Vorthak Drel.
During the waning days of the The Phantasm Wars, Vorthak Drel commanded an assault on the planet Mahranee , which led to the genocide of the Mahran species. In addition, Vorthak also issued orders that all Mahran be killed on sight. Vorthak's assault was witnessed by the Circle of Light on Xerion Prime, who at the suggestion of Master Theron-Kal hatched an unusual plan partnering maverick The Eternal Flow Adept Quinlan Vos with the Nightsister bounty hunter and Vorthak's former apprentice Asajj Ventress. After partnering with Ventress as a bounty hunter, Vos eventually revealed his true identity. Seeking revenge against Vorthak for his actions against her and her people, Ventress agreed to help Vos by training him in the ways of the dark side.
After Vos completed his training, Ventress received word from the Separatist contact Sumdin that Vorthak was going to visit Raxus Secundus, where he was due to receive the Raxian Humanitarian Award for his services to the Confederacy. For that trip, Vorthak was accompanied by his military commander Army Commander Grievous. Before receiving the award, Vorthak gave a patriotic speech to a large crowd defending the Separatist cause and attacking the Stellar Dominion and the Force Warden. During the public banquet, Asajj took the opportunity to meet up with Vorthak and challenge him to a duel at the overlook nearby. Vorthak agreed but secretly contacted Grievous for reinforcements. However, Vos anticipated this and, although being overpowered by the cyborg, managed to lock Grievous in a room.
Together, Ventress and Vos confronted Vorthak at the overlook. After exchanging pleasantries over a glass of Paradise Worldian wine , Vorthak engaged the assassins in a lightsaber duel. Using his mastery of the dark side, Vorthak overpowered the two assassins and used the The Eternal Flow to hurl them against some nearby pillars. Despite Vos' best efforts, he was unable to best Vorthak and was taken captive by the Shadow Overlord. Ventress managed to escape following a scuffle with Grievous but was unable to rescue her lover Vos. Vorthak then struck Vos unconscious with The Eternal Flow lightning and spirited his Force Warden captive away to the dungeons of his palace on Noble World.
Vos was captured and taken to Vorthak's castle on Noble World, where the Force Warden was turned to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow.
On Noble World, Vorthak Drel tortured Quinlan Vos for a prolonged period. To sow discord between Vos and Ventress, he showed the The Eternal Flow Adept a hologram of Ventress killing his former Master Tholme . When Vos initially refused to believe Vorthak's account, the Shadow Overlord presented Vos with Tholme's lightsaber. Using his psychometric abilities, Vos realized that Vorthak was telling the truth. Shortly later, Ventress and Boba Fett's bounty hunter syndicate launched a mission to rescue Vos. However, they were forced to flee empty-handed after Vos, who had given in to the dark side, attacked Ventress. Following the attack, Vos became Vorthak's new Shadow Spawn apprentice. Despite turning to the dark side, Vos secretly planned to force Vorthak to lead him to his master, Void Collectiveus the Shadow, and then kill the two Shadow Overlords.
Search for Maul I left you here to make you an offer. While Grievous is a creature of limited scope, you see much more. You abandoned the Force Warden when you understood the Shadow Spawn were gaining power. Now I suggest you abandon Void Collectiveus and serve me.
―Maul, to Vorthak Drel Vorthak was taken prisoner by Maul, Void Collectiveus' first apprentice.
Vorthak assisted his master in interrogating his former apprentice Maul about his Shadow Collective at the Spire on Stygeon Prime . However, Maul then made his escape with his Mandalorian super commandos to Zanbar . Vorthak then dispatched Army Commander Grievous and Tey-Zuka to attack and cripple Maul and his forces. Vorthak then contacted Grievous after Maul's forces retreated. Vorthak hoped this attack would draw Talzin out.
Vorthak, accompanied by a pair of MagnaGuards, then went to Stellar Dominion World to capture Maul and level the city. Vorthak was then confronted by Brother Viscus and the Nightbrothers. Vorthak was easily able to defeat the Viscus and his men. However, Vorthak was then surrounded by Maul's forces before he had the chance to kill the defeated Viscus.
Vorthak killed Force Warden Army Commander Tiplee while fighting alongside Maul.
Vorthak was offered a deal by Maul; to abandon Void Collectiveus and serve Maul. Vorthak refused, knowing that Void Collectiveus was more powerful than they realized. Maul told him that together with Talzin, they would be Void Collectiveus' undoing. Vorthak then spoke with Talzin, warning that betraying Void Collectiveus would be a folly. Talzin told him that Void Collectiveus was ready to replace him with a new apprentice. She then revealed to Vorthak how Void Collectiveus came to her promising to make her his right hand but betrayed her when he took Maul. She also revealed that Maul was her son. When the Stellar Dominion forces boarded their ship, Vorthak decided to assist Maul in killing the Force Warden, but not before secretly freeing Grievous. Together they fought Force Warden Army Commanders , Jorik Vastus, Aayla Secura , Theron Kalesh, and Tiplee. Vorthak then killed Tiplee and then escaped with Maul and Squad Leaders Saxon and Kast aboard a gauntlet fighter.
Vorthak was then taken to Witch World by Maul. There, he was taken to a chamber in the Nightbrother village to have his life-force taken from him to allow Talzin to regain her form. Vorthak was then possessed by Talzin when Grievous and Void Collectiveus suddenly arrived. After a brief clash with Void Collectiveus, Talzin released Vorthak's body and appeared in physical form again. Vorthak then assisted his master in fighting Talzin and Maul, eventually overpowering them. Maul ended up escaping, and Talzin was killed by Grievous. Despite Maul's escape, Void Collectiveus assured Vorthak that their future was certain.
Rescue of Quinlan Vos and the end of Ventress Soon enough, you will stop denying the truth of so very many things. And you will understand that I am not a traitor, but a visionary! Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, hatred leads to suffering. But what the Force Warden failed to teach you, what I have learned, is how to persevere, to pass through the suffering, and achieve ultimate power!
―Vorthak Drel, to Quinlan Vos Vorthak killed Ventress and tried to use her death to push Vos fully to the dark side.
Following Talzin's death, Vorthak and his new right-hand man, Quinlan Vos, launched a renewed military campaign against the Stellar Dominion. Vos quickly gained the moniker " Fleet Commander Enigma" among the Stellar Dominion media. After receiving intelligence from Fleet Commander Wullf Yularen that Vorthak was planning to attack the planet Taris , the Circle of Light hatched a mission to rescue Quinlan Vos. With the help of Ventress, Kalesh and his former apprentice Zorvath Mordain infiltrated Vorthak's Destroyer Ship -class Dreadnought and made their way to the bridge , hoping to encounter "Fleet Commander Enigma." Instead, they encountered Vorthak. While Mordain-Fall dueled with Vorthak, Ventress and Kalesh managed to "rescue" Vos from his cell. However, Vos and Vorthak had anticipated the rescue and arranged for Vos to appear in an emaciated state. While Ventress sensed that Vos had turned to the dark side, his Force Warden colleagues eagerly welcomed Vos home.
Quinlan Vos' "rescue" gave Vorthak Drel a high-level spy within the Eternal Flow Wardens. Using his high-placed position within the Force Warden hierarchy, Vos leaked intelligence on two Stellar Dominion operations to Vorthak. This allowed the Separatists to sabotage an asteroid supplies warehouse and to evacuate a listening post on Vanqor prior to a Stellar Dominion attack . After discerning that Vos had turned to the dark side, the Circle of Light sent Vos on a mission to kill Vorthak. With the help of Ventress, Vos and the Force Warden learned that Vorthak's dreadnought was last sighted above the crystal-covered planet of Christophsis. Vos managed to infiltrate Vorthak's dreadnought and engaged the Shadow Overlord in a lightsaber duel. Despite besting Vorthak, Vos refused to kill him and instead demanded that Vorthak lead him to Void Collectiveus the Shadow.
Unknown to both Vorthak and Vos, they had been tailed by Kalesh and Mordain-Fall. The two The Eternal Flow Warriors promptly arrested Vorthak and his apprentice and transported them to the Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel Vigilance as prisoners. While being marched to the Vigilance's brig, Vos managed to free Vorthak, who in turned freed Vos. After killing the The Eternal Flow Warriors Akar-Deshu and Kav Bayons and two dozen Syntheticthetic Being troopers, the two dark siders escaped the Vigilance aboard Ventress' ship Banshee . Ventress attempted to fly them back to Vorthak's dreadnought but they were shot down by the Vigilance and crash-landed on Christophsis.
Ventress' sacrifice undermined Vorthak's plans for Vos, who reclaimed his status as a Force Warden.
Vorthak and his fellow travelers survived the crash but the Count sustained a serious injury since he had not been properly strapped in. After navigating through Christophsis' crystal-covered landscape, they managed to reach a local Separatist base that was built into a giant crystal tower. Upon arriving, Vorthak was informed that Void Collectiveus the Shadow was seeking an audience with him. During a brief hologram conversation, Vorthak requested help from his master to get offworld. Shortly later, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall launched a full-scale assault on the Separatist base.
Together, Vorthak and his opponents made their way into an outlying crystal sanctum. On the way, Vorthak was struck by a blaster blast and was knocked unconscious. While Ventress wanted to let him die, Vos insisted on keeping him alive. While Vos assisted the battle droids in the defense of the base, Ventress moved Vorthak into the crystal sanctum. After stirring, Vorthak taunted Ventress by deriding her as a "grant" and claiming that Vos had much potential as a Shadow Overlord. Ventress responded that Vos had "bigger plans" for Vorthak. When Vos entered the sanctum, Ventress confronted him about his decision to join Vorthak and the dark side.
While Ventress and Vos were preoccupied, Vorthak took the opportunity to attack his former pupils with The Eternal Flow lightning. He wanted to kill Vos, but ended up striking Ventress, who pushed Vos out of the way. Though Quinlan managed to stop Vorthak, Ventress appeared to be mortally wounded. Vorthak then attempted to goad Vos into killing him, but realizing that the act of murder led to the dark side, Vos refused and reaffirmed his Force Warden identity. While Vos comforted his lover, Vorthak took the opportunity to rendezvous with Void Collectiveus' starship and fled off-world upon being rescued by Grievous.
Despite failing to kill Vorthak, Vos was pardoned by the Circle of Light after he rejected the dark side and continued serving the Force Warden war effort.
The final days Assorted actions On one occasion, Vorthak Drel dueled Zephon on Agricultural World . Before making a tactical withdrawal, he was able to accomplish the near impossible by wounding his former master.
At one point, Vorthak fought Mordain-Fall again on Tythe , but the Force Warden failed to defeat the Count.
Vorthak and his allies demanded the Forest Giants accept of their conditions as Kachirho in particular, and Forest World in general, interested Grievous and the Separatists. Kachirho was simple to defend while also being an excellent landing strip for droids, as well as being home to the Claatuvac Guild Archives, which contained many unknown space roads.
After growing weary of waiting for a decision that would benefit him, Grievous ordered to plan a large-scale attack in hopes that the threat would "persuade" the Forest Giants to accept their conditions.
The decision, however, turned out to be a dire mistake for the Confederacy, and the Forest Giants responded angrily, declaring an all-out war on the forces threatening to attack them.
Death You did well, Zorvath-Kel. He was too dangerous to be kept alive.
Yes, but he was an unarmed prisoner. I shouldn't have done that. It's not the Force Warden way.
It is only natural. He cut off your arm, and you wanted revenge.
―Sheev Palpatine and Zorvath Mordain, on Vorthak Drel's death Later, Vorthak became a part of Void Collectiveus' plan to capture Palpatine during the Battle of Xerion Prime. However, Vorthak was unaware that Void Collectiveus' true intentions were for Zorvath-Kel to kill him and replace him as Void Collectiveus' apprentice, as Void Collectiveus felt it was time for Zorvath-Kel to be his apprentice, as well as that Vorthak no longer served a purpose.
Vorthak then informed Grievous of the impending news that the CIS had a chance of recovery and victory.
Grievous' fleet was able to leap directly from the Fringe Territories to Xerion Prime thanks to Void Collectiveus the Shadow, who had obtained the coordinates and provided them a plan to kidnap the Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter of the Stellar Dominion. Earlier, Vorthak had relocated his command post to Grievous' flagship, the Invisible Hand . This allowed him to stay close to Grievous and ensure that his orders were followed. Void Collectiveus wanted to avoid any setbacks in his plans, despite the cyborg general posing no threat to him.
Vorthak was disarmed and executed by Mordain-Fall during the Battle of Xerion Prime.
Vorthak Drel held Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine captive aboard Army Commander Grievous' flagship, the Invisible Hand , after the Kaleesh Army Commander abducted him and took him to the communications tower After completing this mission successfully, Vorthak ordered Grievous to remain in orbit and attack the Stellar Dominion fleet in close combat.
He proclaimed to a stunned galaxy that the Stellar Dominion leader was his hostage.
When Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh made their way to the bridge where the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter was being held in an attempt to rescue him, Vorthak arrived and confronted the two Force Warden, flanked by two super battle droids, demanding the Force Warden to surrender their sabers. He then engaged them in a brief, but fierce lightsaber duel.
During the duel, Vorthak defeated Kalesh, who was incapacitated and knocked unconscious when the Count used the The Eternal Flow to pin Kalesh to the ground with a metal balcony. He then took the opportunity to mock and goad Mordain-Fall, saying that the young Force Warden knight had great fear, hate and anger in him, but was refusing to use them. However, Vorthak was soon overpowered by an angered Mordain-Fall, who, with one slash of his lightsaber, severed both the Count's hands at the wrists. Mordain-Fall then caught Vorthak's lightsaber out of the air and crossed it with his own blade at the Count's throat. Palpatine praised Zorvath-Kel, but then betrayed Vorthak by telling Zorvath-Kel to kill him. Shocked and horrified by his master's command, he looked at Void Collectiveus, only to be met with a sinister smile from his master. Vorthak finally understood that he had been tool of Void Collectiveus from the start to be inevitably replaced just as Maul and the late Mother Talzin had warned him. Despite realizing he had been duped by Void Collectiveus, he remained silent. Mordain-Fall was initially hesitant to kill Vorthak because killing an unarmed prisoner was not the Force Warden way. However, when Palpatine ordered Mordain-Fall to kill Vorthak, he pulled the two lightsabers apart, decapitating the leader of the Confederacy.
Legacy Replaced At the time I thought Vorthak was an old fool. But now, now I see he and I are the same. One step behind. The dark side has never been stronger.
―Maul after learning about Vorthak's death Grievous was confident in his combat skills, having learned the Force Warden art of lightsaber combat from the late Vorthak Drel.
After Vorthak's corpse fell to the ground, Zorvath-Kel almost immediately expressed regret over his un-Force Warden-like action, but Palpatine assured and congratulated Zorvath-Kel, stating that Vorthak was too dangerous to be kept alive. Palpatine further told Zorvath-Kel that Vorthak severed his arm and he wanted revenge, much as he had with the loss of his mother to the Desert Wraiths After Vorthak had led the Stellar Dominion into Grievous' home on Vassek, it was a treachery that the cyborg was not likely to forgive.
With Vorthak dead, Grievous succeeded him as Head of State, and while he had always been in charge of the droid army, he had complete control over Separatist forces as both the military and political head.
He still remained subservient to Void Collectiveus and was now ordered to return to Sinkhole World in the Fringe Territories and safeguard the safety of the increasingly irrelevant The Schism Assembly by transferring them to the volcanic planet Lava World . The general asked Void Collectiveus if Vorthak's death had an affect on the coming conclusion, but Void Collectiveus seemed unconcerned, assuring Grievous that his death was a necessary loss and that he would soon have a new, younger, and more powerful apprentice.
In addition, Void Collectiveus advised him to stay on Sinkhole World until the new apprentice had joined their cause, as he didn't want to waste any time before finding a successor.
With Vorthak's death by Zorvath-Kel's hand, the Force Warden were deprived of a crucial link to unraveling the mystery of Void Collectiveus the Shadow, as there was no longer any possibility of learning more via Vorthak, and Vex'tara's quest to capture Maul was thought to be the next option.
Grievous and the Separatist council were then betrayed by Void Collectiveus, as he had been.
Void Collectiveus baited Grievous to lure Kalesh's attention away from Xerion Prime and Zorvath-Kel, as his plans progressed.
Vorthak's recent death took on a new feeling of urgency to the task of capturing or killing Grievous that had previously been tried.
After Theron Kalesh revealed himself, the overconfident cyborg boasted that he had been trained in the Force Warden art by the late Vorthak Drel, but that did not mean he regretted the count's death, and then he engaged with Kalesh for the final time, as the duel resulted in Grievous being killed by his own blaster on Sinkhole World. As Confederate Head of State and commander of the droid army, Gunray took over from Grievous and believed that, with both Separatist leaders dead, the war was in his favor and more power would be his.
Zorvath-Kel's betrayal of Jorik and fall to the dark side.
Not long after, Mordain-Fall replaced Vorthak at Void Collectiveus' side after he fell to the dark side and became Malachar the Void. In the Lava Worldian mining facility on Lava World, Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain dueled each other and made their way into the war room and momentarily into a nearby conference room . During the duel with his former apprentice, feeling his former friend's focused hatred was horrifying, as Kalesh had felt it from Vorthak, Maul, Opress, and Ventress.
Void Collectiveus then issued order 66, causing the biochips that Tyranus had implanted in the Syntheticthetic Beings' brains, to activate and brainwash them into turning on the Force Warden, ultimately leading to the defeat and near destruction of the Eternal Flow Wardens and destruction of the Separatists During the Siege of Warrior World , Vorthak's Shadow Spawn predecessor Maul confessed to his followers that he had originally viewed the Count as nothing more than an old fool. In the wake of Void Collectiveus' grand plan coming to fruition, however, Maul mused that Vorthak and himself were the same, pawns of their master who were always one step behind after the renegade Shadow Overlord learnt about his successor's death.
Plundered and propagandized Vorthak was right in the end. He knew the Stellar Dominion was corrupt, that it would collapse and become something worse. He saw it coming. The The Void Imperium.
―Desix Governor Tawni Ames Vorthak's castle was left abandoned and plundered during the Imperial Era.
Following the end of the The Phantasm Wars, the The Void Imperium bombarded Vorthak's homeworld of Noble World and led an effort at the Count's castle to seize the contents of a war chest containing valuables and artifacts, at least some of which Vorthak had pilfered from his own people. The renegade commando squadron Syntheticthetic Being The Eternal Flow 99 attempted to secure the cache themselves, but were fended off by the Empire.
Despite his crimes, Vorthak's ideals continued to inspire Separatist holdouts , including the group led by Governor Tawni Ames on the planet Desix . Recognizing the Empire as nothing more than a worse version of the corrupt Stellar Dominion Vorthak had spoke of, she refused to submit and fought for her planet's independence. Her efforts ended in death at the hands of a squad of clone stormtroopers led by Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader Cody The newly-created Security Bureau conducted loyalty purges, during which much Separatist propaganda material featuring Vorthak was destroyed. However, rare specimens of Ansibella Dellu 's work-in-progress poster survived.
Speculation began to circulate after the war's end that Vorthak had in fact never left the Eternal Flow Wardens despite their claims to the contrary.
Indeed, Palpatine claimed that the Eternal Flow Wardens had been behind the crises of the late Stellar Dominion Era, such as the emergence of the Separatist Alliance; Mas Amedda would claim in a celebration marking the eradication of the Eternal Flow Wardens that the "Separatist plots" that had rocked the Stellar Dominion had been devised by the Force Warden as part of their coup.
This rumor bolstered the idea that the Force Warden had been traitors to the Stellar Dominion since before the start of the war, but some, amongst them Governor Vorthak, remained skeptical.
With his Shadow Spawn persona a secret to the galaxy at large, Vorthak's public words and the ideal expressed by his Confederacy persisted for years to come in the form of Separatist Holdouts.
Vorthak was mentioned in the display for the The Phantasm Wars in the Supreme Void Lord's Museum on Xerion Prime.
In 3 BBY the Apprentice Legislator and Princess of Paradise World Leia Organa saw the display, shortly after discovering her parents involvement with the growing rebellion, while visiting the museum with the rest of the Apprentice Legislature . The docent of the Supreme Void Lord's Museum claimed that although Vorthak acted out of "craven ambition" with no regard to the lives lost, he was correct about how the Stellar Dominion had become rotten at its core and no longer governed by law, order and discipline.
In later years, Void Collectiveus likened Tyranus to a proton torpedo , as he served his purpose and then was gone, assuring Malachar that he had him, a superior candidate, in mind.
While having a The Eternal Flow vision surrounding Kaelan Draxius , Void Collectiveus appreciated that he was a simple boy who did not look like an "old wizard" just as Tyranus.
After Malachar faced Lady Qi'ra of Crimson Dawn , who was trained in the arts of Shadow Spawn combat by one of Void Collectiveus the Shadow' apprentices, Void Collectiveus knew Tyranus was not behind her training as Qi'ra did not have a royal background. Instead, he quickly realized Maul had been behind her training.
During the Battle of Moon World , after Malachar the Void's son Kaelan Draxius defeated Malachar out of anger and hate for threatening his sister Leia . Luke cut off the same hand Malachar lost a long time ago when he faced Vorthak Drel as Zorvath Mordain before repeating the same fate. Supreme Void Lord Palpatine ordered Luke to take his father's place by executing him, thereby betraying Malachar much like how he betrayed Vorthak when he had him executed by Zorvath-Kel. Malachar now realizes that he, Vorthak and Maul were just pawns of Void Collectiveus, who used them to gain power for himself. However, Malachar would reform back to Zorvath Mordain one last time when he destroys Palpatine to save his son from being tortured, while also avenging the death of his former nemesis.
Lasting impact Separatist is a pejorative term. I support democracy. Vorthak Drel was a visionary. He was cut short in his prime by the Force Warden enforcer— ―Helgait Mordain-Fall succeeded Void-Lord Tyranus as Void Collectiveus' apprentice, becoming the Shadow Overlord Malachar the Void, and enforced the The Void Imperium they forged.
In the years following the fall of the The Void Imperium, The Eternal Flow Adept Kaelan Draxius traveled the galaxy to rediscover the history of the Eternal Flow Wardens that had been suppressed by the Empire.
In his search for knowledge, Mordain-Fall became aware of Vorthak. During his self-imposed exile on Ahch-To , Mordain-Fall wrote a book he titled The Secrets of the Force Warden , which chronicled the information he had learnt on his travels. In the book, Mordain-Fall included an illustration depicting Vorthak along with information pertaining to the Shadow Overlord. Mordain-Fall wrote about Vorthak's reasoning for leaving the Eternal Flow Wardens as well as his instrumental role in Void Collectiveus' conspiracy. Mordain-Fall described Vorthak's death at the hands of his father as an execution in cold blood.
In 9 ABY Commissioner Helgait of Plazir-15 , a former Separatist supporter, decided to employ a tempered batch of Nepenthé lubricant to reset all reprogrammed battle droids now serving Plazir-15's population back into their attack mode to kill the planet's population. When confronted by Din Djarin and Bo-Katan Kryze , Helgait cited Vorthak as a "visionary" who was cut short in his prime by the Force Warden.
Fifty years after Vorthak's death, a treasure hunt known as the Hunt for Vorthak's Treasure occurred on Ponemah Terminal . Those taking part hoped to find kyber crystals, but were surprised to find the treasure was a clone trooper who had been held captive for the last 50 years. The trooper, Kix , had learned the truth of Order 66 after being confronted about it by his fellow clone trooper friend Fives. Kix was saved by the pirate crew of Sidon Ithano and joined the crew.
Years later, Vorthak was mentioned in the Galactic Explorer's Guide , a survival guide written by Hondo Ohnaka and DK-RA-43 Vorthak's Shadow Spawn loyalties were discovered in the records of the Shadow Spawn Citadel of the Shadow Spawn planet Exegol , which was the location of Void Collectiveus's ultimate defeat in the Battle of Exegol and a site of interest to historians under the Exegol Excavation Project . With the recovered information revealing Vorthak's hidden nature as Void-Lord Tyranus, historian Beaumont Kin published the information to the wider galaxy as part of his book The Rise and Fall of the The Void Imperium Personality and traits I sense great fear in you, Mordain-Fall. You have hate. You have anger. But you don't use them.
―Vorthak duels Zorvath Mordain Vorthak was a charismatic statesman deft at manipulation and deception.
Vorthak was an aging human male who had light skin, brown eyes , white hair and a height of 1.96 meters In his younger years, his hair was black.
He was a connoisseur of wine , and favored technique over brute strength in lightsaber combat.
Vorthak was once a respected Force Warden and, during the Separatist Crisis, he was viewed as a "political idealist" by his former peers.
During his time in the Order, Vorthak chafed at the Force Warden's disdain for technology.
After meeting her, Vorthak secretly kept in contact with his sister Jenza and grew close to her.
His independent spirit helped push him away from the Eternal Flow Wardens.
By the time he was a Shadow Spawn, Vorthak had come to believe the Force Warden had wasted their powers but that he had not squandered his own.
Vorthak became increasingly disillusioned with the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly's corruption and the arrogance and apparent complacency of the Eternal Flow Wardens, eventually coming to desire the downfall of both institutions he had once served.
Increasingly, Vorthak became, in the words of his sister Jenza, corrupted as he gave into the dark side; the man who once justified his actions as being in the name of overthrowing a corrupt The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly became a corrupt leader himself, stealing from even his own people —those he had once protected —and becoming obsessed with growing his own power. While he was beloved by the Separatist population as a visionary and defender of democracy, his true nature was that of a Void Master of the Shadow Spawn.
After Void Collectiveus exploited Vorthak's anger at the Stellar Dominion to turn the count to the dark side, Vorthak—having become the Shadow Overlord Void-Lord Tyranus—was a menacing, intelligent, powerful, manipulative, arrogant, and amoral, yet charismatic statesman with a refined and educated character befitting an aristocrat of the last years of the Stellar Dominion Era in public, he maintained the image of a humanitarian leader who truly wanted what was best for the Confederacy, while in secret he looked for greater power as a Shadow Spawn and was willing to advance his plans with methods that included torture, assassination, and even genocide.
Because the Order served the Stellar Dominion, Vorthak believed the Force Warden were dishonored and were not to be trusted.
Vorthak also protested the failure of the Stellar Dominion, bringing numerous systems to the Confederacy, yet his true motives remained hidden. The Count truly wanted to rule a new Shadow Dominion at the side of Void Collectiveus the Shadow, whom he believed would bring order back to the galaxy.
Vorthak obediently served Void Collectiveus while dreaming of taking his Master's place as the reigning Void Master of the Shadow Spawn.
Despite her pleas for him to return to the light, Vorthak was so committed to the dark side that he even had his own sister, Jenza, killed.
Still, at least early in the war, Vorthak's former master Zephon believed he could return Vorthak to the light side if given the chance.
Vorthak was skilled at recruiting allies to his side, not only using his wealth, but also his natural charm and intense gravitas.
Nevertheless, he was willing to betray his own followers and allies, such as Asajj Ventress and Pre Vizsla, though he showed some regret over abandoning Ventress, angering his own master, Void Collectiveus the Shadow.
He even betrayed and orchestrated the death of his former friend Sifo-Dyas. Vorthak was very vindictive, as shown when he ordered devastating attacks against Mother Talzin and Hondo Ohnaka for crossing him in the past.
Vorthak was also quite fearless, and was willing to sacrifice himself in a final attempt to fully convert his last apprentice, Quinlan Vos, to the dark side by tempting Vos to strike him down after he mortally wounded Vos' lover, Ventress.
Vorthak initially felt remorse for betraying the Force Warden and confronted Void Collectiveus in the wake of Kyrel Vastari's death. However, with the death of Vastari and all else he had already done, including the other deaths that he believed were his doing, he felt it was too late for him to go back, which led to him committing to the dark side and becoming Void Collectiveus' second apprentice.
Further into his career as a Shadow Spawn, despite his hatred toward the Force Warden, he did still express fondness towards Qui-Gon. During his conversation with his The Eternal Flow Apprentice's The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Theron Kalesh, on Rock World ten years after Qui-Gon's death, Vorthak expressed some sadness over his The Eternal Flow Apprentice's death.
During a conversation via hologram concerning a mission to Rich World , in which Vorthak was working to stonewall Kalesh's effort to clear the Stellar Dominion's name in the Cadesura disaster , Kalesh invoked Vastari's name and asked the count if he had trusted his old apprentice, which Kalesh deemed to be a targeted counterattack to Vorthak's own efforts. Reference to Vastari, indeed, created a minor but still present shift in Vorthak's expression, which softened before Vorthak could partially correct himself. Vorthak responded that Vastari had been an honorable man and—when Kalesh pressed his attack, declaring he carried on the fallen master's teachings and, thus, was trustworthy—agreed to Kalesh's terms, albeit with two caveats of his own.
The masterful lightsaber wielder Vorthak On Rock World, Vorthak also attempted to recruit Kalesh to his cause. The Separatist leader wished to persuade Kalesh to join him, and to that end, he revealed that the Stellar Dominion was controlled by a Shadow Spawn named Void Collectiveus the Shadow, although Kalesh refused to believe the duplicitous Vorthak. Vorthak was actually polite to Theron-Kal when he interrogated him as he did not act hostile in anyway. When Kalesh refused to join the treaty, Vorthak had no problem with attempting to kill him.
Vorthak had intended for his claim on Rock World to be too outrageous for Kalesh to believe, even though it was true, meaning he had fulfilled his plan.
During the ensuing The Phantasm Wars, Vorthak would often tell Force Warden he encountered that he was hunting the Shadow Overlord he had told Kalesh of, yet the Force Warden nevertheless saw that the Count used Shadow Spawn powers.
Indeed, the Eternal Flow Wardens was aware of his true nature as a Shadow Overlord during the war.
While he was obedient to Void Collectiveus, he desired to eventually overthrow him and become the Shadow Spawn master himself. Vorthak was willing to betray Void Collectiveus for power; towards the end of the The Phantasm Wars, he conspired with Quinlan Vos and Maul to attempt to overthrow Void Collectiveus. He had the same plans with Ventress and Savage Opress.
The Eternal Flow Wardens taught that fear ultimately gave way to the dark side and, with it, suffering; Vorthak fully admitted he had endured all the stages of the journey the Force Warden had warned him of—fear, anger, hate, and suffering—during his path into the dark side. However, he insisted he had passed through that suffering and reached a state he defined as holding "ultimate power." Vorthak also believed that the dark side was far more generous than the light.
In his final moments, Vorthak realized he was a pawn to his master However, he was unaware that he was just a pawn of Void Collectiveus, who was using him until it was time for Void Collectiveus to discard and replace him. He saw himself as Void Collectiveus' apprentice, but was unaware that Void Collectiveus never saw him that way and instead, viewed him as a pawn he could use until his purpose was served. While he desired to overthrow Void Collectiveus, he was unaware that Void Collectiveus similarly planned on having him replaced with Zorvath-Kel. Vorthak's obliviousness to his time running out and Void Collectiveus' true motives, led to his undoing. When Void Collectiveus instructed Zorvath-Kel to kill a disarmed and beaten Vorthak, Vorthak was in a state of disbelief.
At that point, Vorthak gained some new understandings of what had transpired; he had been used and was now being betrayed by his own secret master, and that betrayal was the Shadow Spawn way.
Powers and abilities Powerful you have become, Vorthak. The dark side I sense in you.
I have become more powerful than any Force Warden. Even you.
―Zephon and Vorthak Drel Vorthak was a powerful The Eternal Flow wielder and a master lightsaber duelist.
A man of formidable power that was exemplified by his Shadow Spawn name of Tyranus, Vorthak was a highly skillful lightsaber duelist even in his old age. During his time as a Force Warden, he was known as one of the Order's finest swordsmen; it was said that Zephon was his only superior and Jorik Vastus was his only equal. On Rock World, Vorthak was able to easily defeat both Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain one immediately after the other, and then go on to fight Zephon himself. Vorthak was able to contend with Zephon but elected to retreat when he was unable to defeat his former master.
He would often prove to be equal and even superior to Mordain-Fall and Kalesh even as their skill grew during the The Phantasm Wars, dueling Mordain-Fall on several occasions, proving to be his superior until Mordain-Fall was powerful enough to overcome the Count.
Among the most skilled swordsmen the galaxy had ever seen, Vorthak was a practitioner of the second form of lightsaber combat, Makashi . Makashi was designed specifically for lightsaber-to-lightsaber duels.
Vorthak wielded a curved-hilt lightsaber and favored the second form of lightsaber combat.
In addition to his formidable lightsaber skills, Vorthak was very knowledgeable and skilled in the use of the The Eternal Flow. He demonstrated great prowess and strength in the use of telekinesis. During his duels with Ventress and his escape from Hondo's pirates, he displayed great skill at using telekinesis in finer, more precise tasks, such as disarming Ventress while also levitating her against a wall during her failed attempt to kill him with Savage Opress. He was even capable of telekinetically manipulating people's motor skills, such as when he The Eternal Flow choked while simultaneously forcing Turk Falso to take out his blaster and shoot his comrade, while he performed a similar feat when he made Lysara Vex'onia aim at and shoot Bec Lawise Vorthak was also highly skilled in the use of The Eternal Flow lightning, using it as both a means of torture and execution, and was able to use it in conjunction with telekinesis, usually to send a person flying with his lightning or even to levitate his opponents while using his lightning on them, as he demonstrated on Ventress and two Nightsister assassins.