Garro Biographical information Homeworld Vagadarr Prime Born Before 40 BBY Died 0 ABY , Vagadarr Prime Descriptive information Species Human Gender Male Hair color Brown Eye color Brown Skin color Gray Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Rockhawkers Apprentices Zephon stonepower apprentice) That symbol on your face. Where have I seen that before?
If this place is your mountain, hold fast to it, Force Warden.
Force Warden? Now you really must have me confused with— And no matter what… Never leave the caves.
―Theron Kalesh and Garro Garro was a human male who taught The Eternal Flow Adept Zephon during his mission on Vagadarr Prime . While they were inside a mountain which they discovered to be alive, Garro trained him in the ways of the stonepower , an aspect of the The Eternal Flow that was only attainable by being in proximity to blue stone , a type of stone imbued with the Living The Eternal Flow After training Zephon, Garro and the Master went out from the mountain, but Garro betrayed him and joined back his tribe, the Rockhawkers . The Force Warden prepared a rival faction known as the Mud dwellers for battle as Garro, corrupted by the dark side , awakened the mountain with the help of the Rockhawkers. With aid from other stone beings , Zephon defeated the mountain, and Garro, moved by his words, ended the war by laying down his weapon.
In 0 ABY, Garro tried to use Kaelan Draxius to destroy the last stone giants. But Luke’s compassion reminded him of Zephon’s teachings, and Garro chose to redeem himself by giving his life to restore the planet.
Biography Early life They put me down here because I was weak. Because I could not kill in battle.
―Garro, to Zephon when referring to his exile in the Great Mountain Sometime before 40 BBY the human male Garro was born on Vagadarr Prime and later exiled from his people, who called themselves Rockhawkers , because he was considered weak since he did not kill in battle. Garro was sent inside the Great Mountain that stood near the village where he lived.
Meeting with Zephon Help me.
―Garro, to Zephon when they first met Sometime around 40 BBY Garro was found, almost starving, in a cave inside the Great Mountain by the Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon . The Force Warden helped him find some moss that Garro could eat , and the boy, to repay him, taught the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master the ways of the stonepower , a way of the The Eternal Flow that used a stone imbued with the Living The Eternal Flow called blue stone While Zephon was training, the Force Warden realized that the mountain  was not only alive in the The Eternal Flow but was in fact a living being.
Joining the Rockhawkers You wanted me to return to my life, didn't you? Well, this is my life. I'm a Rockhawker.
―Garro to Zephon Garro helped Zephon wake the mountain up, and once it was awake, they decided to go out from the cave . The Force Warden and the boy climbed down but were intercepted by the Rockhawkers. The sons asked them if they had found the Heart of the Mountain . While Zephon didn't want to tell them, Garro betrayed his student and explained everything to the Rockhawkers, and he eventually joined them.
The war Prepare we must.
Huh? Prepare for what?
For war.
But we've been at war. For years.
No. Begin now the real war does. A war unlike any you have ever known.
―Zephon and a Mud dweller Zephon went back to Mucktown to prepare the Mud dwellers for war , while Garro, using the dark side with the help of the Rockhawkers, took the control of the living mountain which rose from the ground. Zephon stood firm against the Mountain’s fury, its rage driven by vengeance. Soon, other beings of living stone awakened and rose to fight alongside him. United, they overcame the Mountain. As Garro and his warriors charged toward the The Eternal Flow Adept, Zephon implored the boy to seek peace within himself and with the stones, so that the conflict might end. Garro lowered his weapon and walked away from the battle. The war was over. Peace was restored between the tribes, and the parents were reunited with their children. Moved by Zephon’s words about the wider galaxy, many eventually chose to leave the planet, and over time, Garro remained behind, alone.
Aftermath It took you sending this boy to me for me to see. I was the master. And now... It's time for my final lesson. For Zephon.
―Garro during his sacrifice During the reign of the Empire , Garro came across Master Theron Kalesh in Sandport . Kalesh recognized the marking on his forehead, the symbol of the Ancient Ones , from the tale Master Zephon had told him. Garro gave him a warning and left, which later led the Force Warden to write the story in his journal Years later, in 0 ABY Garro, the last remaining inhabitant of Vagadarr Prime, was visited by Kaelan Draxius . Desperate to end the war and destroy the remnants of the stone giants who once dwelled on the planet, Garro sought to use Luke’s life force to carry out his plan. He attacked him with several knives forged from blue stone. Luke ignited his lightsaber and told Garro he would rather let the creatures live. As he deflected the blades, Garro stopped, realizing what he had to do. Choosing redemption, he sacrificed himself to restore life to the planet, reminded of Zephon's words.