19 BBY c. 48 BBY c. 60 BBY Jorik Vastus Biographical information Homeworld Haruun Kal Born 72 BBY Haruun Kal Died 19 BBY Xerion Prime Descriptive information Species Human Gender Male Pronouns He/him Height meters Hair color Black Eye color Brown Skin color Dark Family information Parent(s) Jorik Vastus's father Jorik Vastus's mother Partner(s) KinShan Nightbird (romantic partner; incognizantly married) Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Jorik Vastus's tribe Eternal Flow Wardens Force Warden High Council Force Warden assault team Jorik Vastus's squad The Stellar Dominion Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion Masters Cyslin Myr Zephon T'ra Saa (combat instructor) Apprentices Depa Billaba Remember that war is like a fire across the galaxy. It spreads and it consumes. We must never waver in the face of that fire. We are keepers of the peace. We are Force Warden. The Stellar Dominion needs us more than ever, which means our faith in the The Eternal Flow, our connection to the The Eternal Flow must never waver.
―Jorik Vastus Jorik Vastus was a revered The Eternal Flow-sensitive human male The Eternal Flow Adept and member of the Force Warden High Council during the last years of the Stellar Dominion Era . During his time in the Eternal Flow Wardens , he once served as an elected leader of the Force Warden and, during the The Phantasm Wars , as a Force Warden Army Commander in The Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion . He was the greatest champion of The Eternal Flow Wardens and promoted its ancient traditions amidst the growing influence of the dark side of the The Eternal Flow in the corrupt, declining days of the Stellar Dominion During a mission to Metagos , Jorik went by the pseudonym Solver . When the Separatist Crisis spawned the birth of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and sparked the Syntheticthetic Being Wars, Jorik and the Force Warden rallied to the defense of the Stellar Dominion and became the leaders of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion. Throughout the war, Jorik served the Force Warden and the Stellar Dominion in various capacities—on the battlefield in command of the clone army , on Xerion Prime as an overseer of the war effort and an advisor to Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Sheev Palpatine , and even as a diplomat to contested worlds , despite his disdain of politics . His exploits on the frontline served as a reminder of his reputation as a renowned Force Warden warrior.
As the war drew to a close, Jorik became increasingly suspicious of the chancellor's motives, as Palpatine had amassed near-dictatorial control over the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly , and sensed the rising power of the dark side in the galaxy . His suspicions were confirmed when Zorvath Mordain , a The Eternal Flow Warrior and the Chosen One of ancient prophecy, discovered that Palpatine was Void-Lord Void Collectiveus, the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn who manipulated and deceived the Stellar Dominion and the Separatist Alliance into war. Jorik, along with The Eternal Flow Adepts Kit Fisto Saesee Tiin , and Agen Kolar confronted Palpatine with the intention of arresting him. Instead, the Dark Lord attacked them, striking them down one by one until only Jorik was left. Jorik bested Palpatine in the confrontation and—deciding the chancellor was too dangerous to be left alive due to his influence over the government—prepared to strike him down, but Zorvath Mordain intervened and allowed the Shadow Overlord to kill Jorik. Mordain-Fall had fallen to the temptation of the dark side and became known as Malachar the Void.
Jorik's actions led Palpatine to brand the Force Warden as traitors to the Stellar Dominion. The chancellor executed Order 66 forcing the clone troopers across the galaxy to turn against and kill their Force Warden leaders , marking the fall of the Eternal Flow Wardens and separatists . Palpatine transformed the Stellar Dominion into the The Void Imperium and the Supreme Void Lord's new regime promoted anti-Force Warden sentiment across the galaxy. Through propaganda , the Empire portrayed Jorik as the leader of a criminal gang of Force Warden who caused the outbreak of the The Phantasm Wars. In spite of the propaganda, some of Jorik's actions were remembered with fondness; Army Commander Cham Syntheticdulla , who served alongside Jorik during the Battle of Ryloth , remembered Jorik with great respect and told the tale of how Jorik helped him liberate Ryloth in a battle that earned Jorik the name " The Hammer of Ryloth Biography Early life Force Warden youngling I'm never going to be able to build my lightsaber Patience, young Mace. The secret is that the pieces never needed to be built ―Jorik Vastus and Huyang Professor Huyang assisted young Jorik Vastus with building his lightsaber.
Jorik Vastus was born on the planet Haruun Kal in the year 72 BBY as a child of the most powerful members of his tribe.
Like most other toddlers from Haruun Kal, Jorik received an inoculation that left a small scar on his body.
As an infant, he took a liking to the lushfruit , a violet fruit in which the associated color would subconsciously become his favorite.
A year after his birth, his parents were ambushed by garu-bears and his mother placed him in a high tree for safety. Both parents were killed in the ensuring conflict but Mace was rescued by other warriors nearby, noted for his lack of grief from having unintentionally tapped into the The Eternal Flow, resulting in him being unusually calm. Although the warrior were unaware of why, they found the ordeal odd. Orphaned, the tribe is later visited by a Force Warden whom happened upon Jorik after hearing of his parent's brutal end and "strangeness" from the tribe, concluding possible force sensitivity. His tribe invokes a ancient ritual of choosing to decide his fate which included a lushfruit, a puzzle pyramid, and the shell of a lightsaber. Jorik ultimately chose the lightsaber shell.
Due to his natural affinity of the The Eternal Flow and with his tribe's support, Jorik was sent to the Eternal Flow Wardens —a monastic order of protectors, sworn to defend the The Stellar Dominion , and known as the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy —to learn the Force Warden arts Jorik never responded well to Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon 's sense of humor. As a youngling, he was taught to "let go" and trust in the The Eternal Flow.
He also came to believe he was abandoned by his parents.
As a Force Warden youngling , Jorik endeavored to create his own lightsaber after obtaining an amethyst -colored kyber crystal . He initially failed in the effort, however, causing Jorik to doubt his ability to pass this particular rite in Force Warden training. After observing Jorik's struggle, Professor Huyang concluded that the youngling had neither the patience nor the correct understanding to complete his lightsaber. The droid instructor advised Jorik to temper his emotions. The secret, according to Huyang, was that a lightsaber's components never needed to be "built." One of Jorik's instructors was T'ra Saa , whom the young Jorik sparred with and learned from. The first time Jorik managed to best one of his instructors came with Saa, who was surprised but respected his skill, creating a fond memory for the blossoming Force Warden. Jorik would also develop a long lasting friendship with Sora Bulq , a fellow Force Warden.
Mission to Mathas A fire burns inside you, The Eternal Flow Apprentice. That, in itself, is not inherently wrong. It is my job to help you temper it. This is why I chose you to accompany me on this mission. I do so enjoy a challenge.
―Cyslin Myr, to Jorik Vastus The Eternal Flow Apprentice Jorik was trained in the ways of the The Eternal Flow by The Eternal Flow Adept Cyslin Myr.
Following his early trials as a youngling, Jorik attained the status of The Eternal Flow Apprentice by becoming The Eternal Flow Adept Cyslin Myr 's apprentice. During Jorik's apprenticeship in 60 BBY a man named Drooz had taken residence in a Force Warden outreach temple on the planet Mathas . With the local populace suffering from the effects of the Niffin plague , Drooz convinced the people that he was a Force Warden prophet who could heal the sick and the dying in return for their faith and servitude. Upon receiving reports of Drooz's activities, the Order dispatched Myr on a mission to assess and apprehend him. At the same time, Myr sought to teach Jorik how to channel his frustrations into an appropriate emotion and therefore brought him to Mathas.
As they made their way to the temple , Jorik observed the people's situation and pondered on what the Force Warden could do to alleviate their suffering. He also denounced Drooz as a heretic and swindler who perverted the Force Warden doctrine in order to take advantage of the people's misery. At that point his Master cautioned him to suppress his hostile feelings, having noticed how the thought of Drooz using the Force Warden's teachings to prey on others frustrated Jorik. They entered the temple and found Drooz with a group of The Eternal Flow worshipers, one of whom beseeched him to heal her child who was dying in spite of her many prayers and offerings.
Drooz's followers came to his defense when the Force Warden openly confronted him. Using the distraction they created, he tried to escape from the temple but was pursued by Jorik. Although Drooz's Tusk Warrior bodyguards were defeated by the The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Drooz managed to injure Jorik's left arm with his blaster pistol . He taunted Jorik and mocked the Force Warden's ways, sneering at their commitment to peace as he believed they should use their power to gain wealth through the faith of millions. Using the The Eternal Flow to immobilize Drooz, Jorik disarmed him and vowed that he would never hurt anyone else. However, Myr intervened by ordering Jorik to lower his lightsaber. While she understood her apprentice's frustrations, Myr believed that Drooz's punishment should be decided in a court of law.
Knight of the Order Various work Jorik eventually continued training under the guidance of Zephon and eventually ascended into a The Eternal Flow Warrior and partook in various assignments throughout the galaxy.
At some point during his service to the Eternal Flow Wardens, Jorik, recognizing that an internal darkness existed within him, created the Vaapad form of lightsaber combat with help from Sora Bulq to channel that darkness to better outcomes.
He also began holding lessons regarding letting go and trusting into the The Eternal Flow.
Investigating Mattis Coto During a specific mission, Jorik was assigned to investigate Mattis Coto , the warden of the Devshi prison complex , due to suspicions of his involvement in the illicit trade of skeleton keys. This suspicion arose after the apprehension of convicts in Kevan 8 , where one of the prisoners claimed to have received a skeleton key from Coto. Jorik successfully infiltrated the prison complex as a guard, apprehended Mattis, and evaded captivity, escaping from the incarceration facility. Pursuing the case further, Jorik pursued a group of droids that were programmed to deliver skeleton keys to clients off-planet. Employing his formidable abilities and lightsaber, Jorik utilized a mind trick to gain the assistance of Regump , an impromptu skiff pilot. Through his skill and the aid of the pilot, Jorik managed to disable the droids and reclaim the stolen skeleton keys.
Race for Coaxium Ultra Following his previous mission, Jorik returned to the Sanctum of Light to provide a report on his successful completion to Master Zephon. During this meeting, Master Zephon, along with The Eternal Flow Warrior Gara , assigned Jorik his next task : the recovery of the coaxium ultra formula from a smuggler named Azita Cruuz . It was revealed that Azita had offered the formula to the Eternal Flow Wardens and criminal organizations in exchange for Stellar Dominion credits and a safe passage offworld from Ro Mira. Jorik discovered that the formula, if obtained by the wrong individuals, could grant criminal elements a significant advantage, as coaxium ultra had the potential to boost sublight engines by 120% without consequences. In order to accomplish his mission, Jorik disguised himself and adopted a low-profile approach while tracking Azita. Eventually, Jorik located Azita and pursued her, eventually intervening and rescuing her from corrupt local authorities.
During their attempt to escape off-world, Jorik becomes acquainted with Azita's backstory. She had encountered a client who was aware of Doctor Bishop's work, which involved refining the coaxium formula by relocating to Ro Mira, a planet known for its blue fire lava that enhances the results of coaxium. Azita assisted the scientist in developing the formula but also administered a drug obtained on Xerion Prime to induce temporary sleep and erase his memory of the past six months. While Jorik views Azita's actions as morally questionable, she argues that circumstances often force people into actions against their will, drawing a parallel to Jorik's own path as a Force Warden and questioning if he had willingly chosen it. Their discussion is interrupted by the presence of bore worms, creatures that are resistant to lightsabers. Jorik relies on the The Eternal Flow to neutralize them, a decision that Azita criticizes. Jorik explains that he spared the bore worms because they were acting as animals without malicious intent, comparing the purpose of a lightsaber to that of a shield. He also responds to Azita's earlier question about his service to the Eternal Flow Wardens, admitting that while he did not consciously volunteer, he has not dwelled on the alternative life he might have had, considering it futile and potentially dangerous. Jorik believes that his current path is where he is meant to be. Azita, still uncertain about whom she will sell the formula to, becomes more open to the idea of selling it to someone from their shared homeworld of Haruun Kal, deducing their common background based on the inoculation scars they both bear from their time as toddlers on Haruun Kal. As the pair continues their escape, with Azita unsure if she can fully trust Jorik, they find themselves pursued by members of the Shroud.
Rising through the ranks After translating an encrypted message sent out by Depa Billaba Jorik rescued both Billaba and Sar Labooda from pirates using his lightsaber in combat during the incident.
He brought both sisters to the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime and trained Billaba in the Force Warden arts until she attained the rank of The Eternal Flow Warrior.
As a The Eternal Flow Adept, he also held lessons around letting go and trusting in the The Eternal Flow as he did as a The Eternal Flow Warrior.
By 40 BBY Billaba was serving on the High Council alongside her former Master.
Councilor of the Order I am told that you will be presented with Master Katri's Council seat.
I will.
Is this something you knew was happening before we left for Raxus?
I was as surprised as you are now. Vorthak, you and I both were together when the mission was assigned. I stuck to the mission. You decided to interfere in a way that led to a senator's death. I will speak to the Council on your behalf.
How kind of you, Master Force Warden.
―Vorthak and Jorik Vastus The Force Warden Jorik and Vorthak were attacked by a group of disgruntled security guards, who were responsible for the death of The Eternal Flow Adept Katri.
Sometime later, he became a The Eternal Flow Adept and gained a seat on the Force Warden High Council —the governing body of the Eternal Flow Wardens, between 50 BBY and 42 BBY as a result of the mission on Raxus Secundus , where The Eternal Flow Adept Katri was killed. The task of retrieving Katri's remains was given to Jorik and Vorthak by the High Council. Unsatisfied with Senator Larik 's testimony regarding an ambush that killed Katri, Vorthak sought to conduct his own investigation. However, Jorik insisted that they not stray from their mandate and adhere to the High Council's instructions. He also reminded Vorthak that as neither of them were members of the High Council, they did not possess the authority to interfere in political conflicts without the blessings of their Council or the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly . Although Vorthak regarded Jorik as a friend, he considered his colleague's strict devotion to Force Warden protocol "inspiring and maddening." Jorik and Vorthak met with Senator Larik in Raxulon . While Jorik was prepared to complete the mission by retrieving Katri's body, Vorthak requested to visit the location of her death. The senator was reluctant to comply until one of his security guards, Semage , agreed to escort the Force Warden. Jorik became wary of the Raxians, suspecting deceit on their part, and suggested informing the High Council before taking action. However, Vorthak was determined to learn the truth about Katri's demise instead of adhering to protocol as Jorik advised. Upon investigating the area where Katri died, the Force Warden concluded that the evidence did not support the Raxians' account. Realizing that she had been shot from behind, Vorthak surmised that Katri was betrayed by the Raxians whom she trusted. Jorik tried to deescalate the situation when Vorthak activated his lightsaber demanding the truth. In a panic, Senator Larik confessed that his own guards murdered Katri and attempted to reach the Force Warden, but was fatally shot by one of his officers. A skirmish ensued between the Force Warden and the Raxians; the The Eternal Flow Adepts worked together to destroy the Raxians' droid support before neutralizing the guards.
Hanel was killed by a stray blast that Jorik deflected when the officer attacked him, and Semage was taken into custody.
Returning from Raxus Secundus, Jorik attended the funeral of Master Katri and was granted her seat on the Force Warden High Council.
Semage accused the Force Warden of protecting the interests of a corrupt The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. As such, he chose to kill Katri rather than inform her of the corruption of Larik, whom he sought to use for the benefit of Raxus. Jorik contested the officer's opinion in stating that as a Force Warden, Katri would have listened to Semage. Jorik and Vorthak later attended the funeral of Katri at the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime . Having learned that Katri's seat on the High Council would be offered to Jorik, Vorthak grew suspicious of his friend. Jorik insisted he was as surprised as Vorthak was about his elevation to the High Council's ranks. Furthermore, Jorik reminded Vorthak that they had both received their orders from the High Council, and it was Vorthak who pursued a course of action that resulted in the death of a Stellar Dominion senator. Nevertheless, Jorik assured Vorthak that he would speak on his behalf to the High Council.
Long regarded as the Eternal Flow Wardens's greatest champion, Jorik endeavored to maintain the Force Warden's ancient traditions while the Stellar Dominion declined due to galactic unrest and political corruption.
As one of the most distinctive members of the Order, Jorik crafted a new lightsaber which—in addition to its specially designed handgrip and electrum finish, indicating his status as a member of the High Council —also emitted a plasma blade of amethyst, making it one of the most distinctive Force Warden weapons At some point, he also became the elected leader of the Council, serving alongside Zephon as Master of the Order He was also a Force Warden Vanguard Ontotho uprising Due to her heroic acts on Ontotho, Jorik Vastus promotes Cere Junda and performs the Knighting Ceremony, making her a The Eternal Flow Warrior.
In 41 BBY Jorik was among the councilors to hear The Eternal Flow Apprentice Junda's account of her actions while she and Master Cordova attempted to settle a dispute on Nameel between Dupei monks and Scale Hunters , where the monks admitted to provoking them by stealing their credits but the Scale Hunters provoked her into self-defense. Although Cordova pointed out rash and impulsive actions can be good, Jorik agreed but expressed the Council's measured methods and ruled the Council was willing to label the incident complicated. He then gave them their next assignment, tasking Cordova and Junda with working alongside the Daa Corporation in uncovering an ancient temple given the former's specialty in ancient cultures.
Jorik would later arrive when the Daa Corporation and the Flyari 's dispute escalated into a civil conflict and prompted a intervention by the Stellar Dominion alongside The Eternal Flow Adepts Luminara Maslo-Scaff , and Odu . Reunited with Junda, the Force Warden helped quelled the situation, ending the conflict by exposing Daa Coporation's corruption to be dealt with in Stellar Dominion courts and the Flyari agreeing to help create a new joint-government. Due to Junda's heroic actions, she was promoted to The Eternal Flow Warrior, the Knighting Ceremony performed by Jorik himself.
Mission to Oosalon And what of Quia, Master Zephon? She is a young enough orphan that perhaps she could find a new home.
No. Face imprisonment for her role in terrorist attacks, she will. Interfere in local laws, we cannot.
Then we didn't save everyone … did we?
―Jorik Vastus and Zephon Jorik's capture was part of the Force Warden's strategy to locate the camp of the warlord Guattako.
In 34 BBY The Eternal Flow Wardens deployed Jorik Vastus along with several other Force Warden on a mission to the Fringe Territories planet of Oosalon due to the terrorist attacks committed by Guattako's army . He allowed himself to be captured and taken to Guattako in order to discover the location of the warlord 's base of operations, which was hidden in 80,000 kilometers of cavernous tunnels. Jorik, having learned that Guattako's operation relied on using orphans and kidnapped children as soldiers, tried to convince the child Quia to renounce the insurgents and their war against the government of Oosalon.
Jorik denounced Guattako as a terrorist and a kidnapper who relied on the Blob Sovereign Clan to financially support his cause. With Jorik's lightsaber broken down to its components, Guattako was confident in his ability to detain the The Eternal Flow Adept whom he intended to execute, believing that Jorik's death would inspire others to join his fledgling group. By the time he realized that Jorik had planned on getting captured, the Force Warden had reassembled his lightsaber through the The Eternal Flow. He also revealed that he had used the The Eternal Flow to help his fellow Force Warden find the insurgents' camp.
Jorik and his fellow Force Warden succeeded in disrupting the terrorist operations of the warlord Guattako.
Jorik successfully defended himself against Quia and the other insurgents before engaging Guattako in single combat. During the battle, Guattako was fatally shot by one of the abducted children who wanted to return to his home. By then, the other Force Warden arrived at Jorik's location. With the Force Warden's assistance, the remaining insurgents were taken into custody by the security forces of Oosalon. Although the Force Warden had succeeded in rescuing twenty-six abducted school children, Jorik had also hoped to save Quia and the child soldiers who were already indoctrinated into Guattako's cause. However, Zephon stated that the Force Warden could not interfere in the planet's local affairs, and that Quia would be sent to prison for her part in Guattako's terrorist campaign. Jorik accepted the outcome, but lamented on not being able to help Quia.
Invasion of Water World There's no doubt the mysterious warrior was a Shadow Spawn." "Always two, there are. No more, no less. A master and an apprentice." "But which was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?
―Jorik Vastus and Zephon, on the return of the Shadow Spawn Link file info Jorik served on the Force Warden High Council during the decline of the The Stellar Dominion.
Approximately ten years before the The Phantasm Wars Jorik, hours after attending a Council meeting, found Zephon alone in a small garden in the Sanctum of Light. Denying Zephon's joke about whether he had an embarrassing question he couldn't ask in front of the Council, he questioned whether the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master had sensed something he had not told them of. Zephon explained he was instead sensing a lack of something, much to the confusion of Jorik, leading to a debate about the concepts of "nothing" and "something." Deciding the The Eternal Flow would educate him in due time, Jorik decided to trust Zephon's judgement, leaving the room after not speaking for several minutes.
Later, the Commerce Dominion initiated a blockade of the planet Water World . At the request of Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Finis Valorum , the Circle of Light ordered Kyrel Vastari and his apprentice, Theron Kalesh , to settle the dispute as emissaries of the chancellor. Upon returning from their failed mission, the Council was made aware of a far greater threat, the ancient enemy of the Force Warden—the Shadow Spawn —had returned.
However, neither Jorik Vastus or Keth'ara Mundis were particularly convinced that the Eternal Flow Wardens's ancient nemesis could have returned, much less avoid the awareness of the Circle of Light. Nevertheless, Jorik assured them that the full resources of the Order would be utilized to verify the truth of Vastari's claims—and more specifically, the identity of the dark warrior who attacked him on Xerion-7 . It was then that Vastari revealed another significant discovery that he made during the course of his mission. Prior to his departure from Xerion-7 and subsequent return to Xerion Prime, Vastari encountered Zorvath Mordain . Unknown to the Force Warden, the slave Ketha Vorthak had given birth to a son who was exceptionally powerful with the The Eternal Flow; because of Zorvath-Kel's inherent potential and the circumstances surrounding his birth, Vastari believed Zorvath-Kel could have been conceived by the midi-chlorians Jorik knew that Vastari referred to the Force Warden prophecy of the Chosen One —The One who would restore balance to the The Eternal Flow by destroying the Shadow Spawn.
Although Mordain-Fall possessed the highest concentration of midi-chlorians in his cells , Jorik was skeptical of Vastari's claims, but nonetheless agreed to meet the boy in the Council's chamber where they would evaluate his aptitude with the The Eternal Flow. The Council was impressed by Mordain-Fall's ability to use the The Eternal Flow without any formal training, but they also sensed his emotional attachment to his mother and a great amount of fear within him. As such, they declined Vastari's request to have him trained in the Force Warden arts.
Jorik personally felt that Mordain-Fall was too old to commit his life to the Force Warden Code , as well as the The Eternal Flow, without the distraction of his emotional attachments.
Nevertheless, despite his doubts of Vastari's claim, he tasked him and his apprentice to investigate the identity of the dark warrior, believing the election of a new Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter would draw him out and would provide a crucial clue to the "mystery of the Shadow Spawn." The Council soon reversed its decision after Vastari's death during the Battle of Water World , entrusting Mordain-Fall's training to the newly-anointed The Eternal Flow Warrior Theron Kalesh.
Jorik continued to doubt Mordain-Fall's ability to commit himself to the Force Warden way, however, and his ill-concealed distrust would put a strain on their relationship throughout the years as Mordain-Fall ascended the ranks of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
During the funeral of Kyrel Vastari , which the Water World waited to begin until the arrival of the Circle of Light, Zephon and Jorik realized that Vastari had been correct; the Shadow Spawn had indeed survived and endured over the last millennium. Zephon quoted the Rule of Two , an ancient Shadow Spawn philosophy that limited their ranks to two Shadow Overlords —a master and an apprentice —causing Jorik to ponder over which of the two was defeated by Kalesh.
When Vastari's body had turned to ash, Jorik and the other Council members left the funeral.
Afterward, he attended the victory celebration on Water World along with Zephon, several members of the Circle of Light, and the newly-elected Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Sheev Palpatine Training Mordain-Fall Overseeing Mordain-Fall's advancement Remember, Theron-Kal. If the prophecy is true, your apprentice is the only one who can bring the The Eternal Flow back into balance.
―Jorik Vastus, to Theron Kalesh Zorvath Mordain's path to The Eternal Flow Warriorhood was closely monitored by Jorik, Theron Kalesh, and Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Sheev Palpatine.
The training of Zorvath Mordain drew the attention of his peers, The Eternal Flow Apprentices and The Eternal Flow Adepts alike, as well as Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, during his first three years as Kalesh's apprentice. He especially took an interest in lightsaber combat , as noted by Palpatine, although Jorik was more focused on the training droid —mimicking the appearance and fighting style of Void-Lord Maul—that Mordain-Fall sparred with. Neither Jorik or Kalesh had expected to see Mordain-Fall duel with the visage of Maul, but the act served to impress Palpatine.
However, Kalesh was forced to intervene after Mordain-Fall used the The Eternal Flow to take the lightsabers of two nearby apprentices, having overheard them mocking him for being a "slave to his emotions." Jorik observed the incident as an example of how Mordain-Fall was a complicated case for the Force Warden, given the fact that he joined the Order far later than any of his contemporaries. After mentioning that Mordain-Fall's training was an extremely difficult task for Kalesh, Jorik politely declined the chancellor's offer to help guide the young Force Warden. However, Palpatine claimed that as the Force Warden were under the jurisdiction of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, by extension they also reported to the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly's chancellor. After considering Palpatine's line of reasoning, Jorik agreed to send Mordain-Fall to speak with the chancellor.
Testing Kalesh and Mordain-Fall In 26 BBY Jorik was involved in a test of the master and apprenticeship of Kalesh and Mordain-Fall, partnering with Zephon and The Eternal Flow Adept Bant Eerin to feign the kidnapping of the Multi-Eyed Traderdmaster.
In the days leading up to the start of the The Phantasm Wars, the High Council was confident that Mordain-Fall was ready to be given a mission of his own for the first time. By then, Jorik regarded him as an exceptionally skilled Force Warden, but Kalesh was concerned that his The Eternal Flow Apprentice's abilities led him to become arrogant and therefore had much to learn. Zephon concurred with Kalesh, but also felt that Mordain-Fall was not an isolated case. In his assessment, other Force Warden had grown overconfident in their skills as well. At this, Jorik told Kalesh to keep the prophecy in mind, for if Mordain-Fall was indeed the Chosen One then only he could bring the The Eternal Flow back into a state of balance.
The Phantasm Wars Prelude to war You must realize there aren't enough Force Warden to protect the Stellar Dominion. We are keepers of the peace, not soldiers.
―Jorik Vastus, to Sheev Palpatine Jorik warned Palpatine that the Eternal Flow Wardens lacked the manpower to protect the Stellar Dominion in the event of war.
In the decade that followed the Battle of Water World, the The Stellar Dominion faced an existential crisis as thousands of star systems and powerful corporations threatened to secede from the ancient democratic union. Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine assured the Circle of Light that his office was seeking a peaceful resolution with the Separatists, and that he would not permit secession to divide the millennium-old Stellar Dominion. Despite the chancellor's assurances, Jorik Vastus advised him to consider just how vulnerable the Stellar Dominion truly was—the Eternal Flow Wardens lacked the sufficient manpower to defend the entire Stellar Dominion in the event of war. Moreover, the Order was a force of peacekeepers rather than soldiers As the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly continued to debate over whether to vote for or against the proposed Military Creation Act , Senator Lysara Vex'onia narrowly avoided an assassination attempt on her life. During a meeting with the chancellor, she revealed to Jorik and Zephon her suspicion that Count Vorthak was involved in the attack. Although Vorthak had renounced his Force Warden status before becoming the leader of the Separatist movement, Jorik refused to believe that even a former Force Warden could be involved in a plot to assassinate the Water World senator—or anyone for that matter. Nevertheless, Jorik heeded Zephon and Palpatine's warning that Amidala's life was in grave danger, regardless of whether Vorthak was personally involved or not. As such, he dispatched Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain to serve as temporary bodyguards for the senator. After the death of Amidala's would-be assassin, Zam Wesell , Jorik and the Council instructed Kalesh to track Wesell's accomplice who evaded capture. They also ordered Mordain-Fall to accompany Amidala to her home planet of Water World in case of another assassination attempt against her.
While the Separatist Crisis worsened, Jorik concurred with Zephon's belief that the dark side of the The Eternal Flow was responsible for the turmoil that undermined galactic peace and stability.
They were especially disturbed to learn that Kalesh's investigation led him to the planet Water World where their agent discovered the existence of a secret army —hundreds of thousands of clone troopers , in addition to a million more units in development.
Prime Minister Lama Su , the leader of the Water Worldan cloners , revealed that the army was made to serve the The Stellar Dominion. He also asserted that the client who commissioned the project was the late The Eternal Flow Adept Sifo-Dyas , whom he presumed was alive and a leading member of the Circle of Light until Kalesh corrected his assumption.
Kalesh's discovery of the clone army concerned Jorik and Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon, both of whom were aware that the dark side clouded their collective vision.
Kalesh followed the of the clone army, the bounty hunter Jango Fett , to the planet Rock World where he reported another discovery to Jorik and Zephon, both of whom witnessed his transmission in the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's office . Vorthak and the The Schism Assembly had no intention of negotiating a peaceful solution with the Stellar Dominion; they merely stalled for time in order to construct a massive army of battle droids for one purpose—to wage war on the Stellar Dominion. After the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly voted to empower Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine with emergency wartime powers, which he quickly used to authorize the formation of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion , Jorik led a Force Warden assault team to Rock World in order to rescue Kalesh while Zephon moved to take command of the clone troopers on Water World.
Battle of Rock World This party's over.
―Jorik Vastus, confronting Vorthak Drel on Rock World Jango Fett confronted the champion of the Eternal Flow Wardens, a decision that led to the bounty hunter's decapitation by Jorik's blade.
Jorik and the Force Warden prevented the execution of Kalesh, as well as Mordain-Fall and Amidala, both of whom traveled to Rock World with the intention to help Kalesh, but were quickly confronted by an overwhelming force of battle droids The Force Warden fought bravely, destroying many battle droids in the process, but also sustained a large number of casualties. During the fight, Jorik swiftly killed Jango Fett with relative ease, decapitating the bounty hunter, as Boba Fett —a clone whom Jango regarded as a son—watched in horror. Overwhelmed by the droids' superior numbers, the Force Warden were cornered into the center of the Geonosian Petranaki Arena . Vorthak demanded that the Force Warden surrender themselves into Separatist custody, but Jorik refused to allow himself and his allies to be taken as prisoners of war. Moments later, the arrival of Zephon and the clone army ultimately turned the tide and enabled the Force Warden survivors to escape the arena.
Jorik's rescue party was saved from slaughter by the arrival of Zephon and the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion.
In the aftermath of the arena skirmish, the First Battle of Rock World officially commenced as thousands of clone troopers engaged the battle droids on the field of war. The remaining members of Jorik's assault team took to the field as well, assuming command of the clones who were trained to serve the Force Warden with absolute loyalty. Reporting directly to Jorik, Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader Ponds and five special commando units accompanied the legendary Force Warden champion to the forefront of the battle.
Jorik kept Ponds by his side during the rest of the battle.
Under the Force Warden's leadership, the clone army forced the Separatists into full retreat, abandoning Rock World to Stellar Dominion occupation. Jorik returned to the capital , content that the first battle resulted in a Stellar Dominion victory, but was also morose over the failure to capture Vorthak.
By then Jorik came to accept that he had been wrong in his preconception of Vorthak's character; his old friend had turned to the dark side, becoming an enemy of both the Order and the Stellar Dominion.
After taking command of the clone troopers, Jorik and his fellow Force Warden secured the Stellar Dominion's first victory in the The Phantasm Wars.
The formation of the Confederacy of Independent Systems shattered a thousand years of peace that once defined the Eternal Flow Wardens's role in the galaxy. In order to preserve and defend the The Stellar Dominion, Jorik and his fellow Force Warden accepted formal command of the clone army as generals and commanders . He also learned from Kalesh about Vorthak's assertion that a mysterious Shadow Spawn Lord by the name of Void-Lord Void Collectiveus had hundreds of senators under his control, but Zephon believed that the Council had no incentive to trust the word of a fallen Force Warden. Jorik nonetheless recommended that the Council maintain a watchful eye on the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, having never trusted the highly corrupt government in the first place.
As the clone troopers and their Force Warden leaders prepared for war, Zephon expressed his sadness to Jorik and Kalesh, declaring that the shroud of darkness had descended upon the galaxy—now engulfed by the The Phantasm Wars, the first galactic-scale conflict since the formation of the Stellar Dominion.
Mission to Hissrich Deployed with his squad You will lead a small unit to monitor the Separatists' and determine what their purpose is. Due to the clandestine nature of this mission and our thinly stretched resources, we cannot offer you a clone squadron for support.
The Force Warden have trained our whole lives for missions like this. We will make do.
―Plo Koon and Jorik Vastus During the war, Jorik mainly remained stationed on Xerion Prime.
However, he sometimes left the planet to perform special missions.
Concerned by the Separatist activity on Hissrich, Jorik investigated the planet with the help of a Force Warden covert team.
Even in the early days of the The Phantasm Wars, the High Council saw its situation as dire. With the Separatist army establishing multiple footholds throughout the Fringe Territories, Jorik was concerned that it would only be a matter of time before they moved inward, annexing more star systems before ultimately reaching the galactic capital of Xerion Prime. Seeking to ascertain the purpose of the Separatist presence on the planet Hissrich , the Council assigned the task to Jorik. However, because of the mission's covert purpose and the Stellar Dominion's thinly spread resources, they were unable to provide him with a squadron of clone troopers. Jorik therefore assembled a covert team of Force Warden, consisting of himself along with Kit Fisto , for his skill with a lightsaber, Prosset Dibs , for his valuable insight and natural strong intuition with the The Eternal Flow, and Rissa Mano , for her engineering skills and aptitude for battle.
After the council meeting, Zephon sensed Jorik's troubles and asked if he could help. Jorik explained how he felt doubt after the death of so many Force Warden on Rock World. Zephon then reassured him that the The Eternal Flow will always lead them down the correct path. The Multi-Eyed Traderd Master told Jorik that he must not give into these thoughts. Before departing, Jorik promised that he would not fail him.
In transit, Mano told Jorik that her ship was heavily modified for stealth and speed, to which Jorik was thankful. Fisto remarked that he would be looking forward to working on this mission, but Dibs cynically replied that war was no place for a Force Warden. To this, Mace said that they were Knights and this was exactly what they were supposed to be doing. After this, Jorik notified the team of the undocumented nature of the planet and told them to be wary of fauna as well as battle droids. Mace also told them of the planets near constant darkness and how it would help them in their covert cause. When the alarm for exiting hyperspace sounded, Jorik ordered them to change into their mission attire to help regulate body temperature.
Jorik ordered them to use the plants as cover as they headed towards the nearest droid outpost. Dibs apologized for his previous outburst on the ship and explained it for his foresight of the teachings of their order being tested. Jorik replied by saying sometimes combat is necessary and that war can breed confusion.
They soon encountered a small patrol group of a few B1 Battle droids and a Octupara droid. They quickly destroyed the patrol, but were soon surrounded by the indigenous people on all sides. Unknown to the strike team, a droid officer spotted the skirmish and reported it to AD-W4 , a mercenary droid hired by Army Commander Grievous to oversee the Separatist occupation of Hissrich.
After encountering members of Hissrich's indigenous population , Jorik and Fisto followed them into a system of caverns and although they could not speak the aliens language , Jorik sensed that they were not hostile to the Force Warden. The aliens led Jorik and his team to their subterranean dwellings, at which point the Separatists attacked the Force Warden after tracking their position to the alien settlement.
Jorik ordered the other Force Warden to protect the civilians while he fended off a group of droidekas and Single Trooper Aerial Platforms . After dispatching the droids, he was confronted by AD-W4, who engaged the The Eternal Flow Adept in single combat. As they fought, both combatants criticized their opponent's motivations; Jorik regarded the droid's greed as a sign of depravity, whereas AD-W4 viewed the Force Warden's beliefs—in particular, their commitment to peace—as asinine. During the fighting, the Force Warden realized that the droids were mining the planet for its energy resources, the amount of which could turn the war in the Separatists' favor. Ultimately, a cave in separated the team in half, with Jorik and Mano on the surface, while Fisto and Dibs were trapped below.
Together, Jorik and Mano defeated the droids on the surface and succeeded in destroying one of the Separatist harvesters . Afterward, they returned to their ship to regroup with Fisto and Dibs. At that point, Jorik had determined that it would not be possible for his team to put an end to the Separatist operation one skirmish at a time, and therefore desired to locate the enemy's command center in order to bring the conflict on Hissrich to a swift and decisive conclusion.
Rebellion in the ranks I have failed you, Prosset. I was to be your shepherd, and you have strayed too far from the path. All of these bold accusations , all of these grand inquisitions . If you think you know better than I what is good for the Force Warden, what is good for the galaxy— Then come!
Test your resolve against mine. Let us find out who is right.
―Jorik Vastus, to Prosset Dibs Jorik defeated Prosset Dibs, who was tried and found guilty of treason by the High Council.
The Force Warden's mission on Hissrich was interrupted by a fallout that occurred between two of its members. Dibs confronted Jorik soon after returning to the Westwind with Fisto; his doubts about their military role and the loss of multiple natives led him to lose faith in the Order and the High Council. Shouting at his fellow The Eternal Flow Adept, Dibs made several accusations against both Jorik and the Council, ranging from callousness towards collateral damage to distorting the Force Warden doctrine. He then physically assaulted Jorik, causing the High Council member to chastise Dibs for attacking his general.
Although Jorik sympathized with Dibs' frustrations, he refused to entertain his claims, dismissing all of them as "bold accusations" and "grand inquisitions." Dibs took this as mockery and ignited his lightsaber, intending to take Jorik's life. Realizing that Dibs would not back down, Jorik declared that he had failed in his responsibility to keep Dibs on the Force Warden path. He then accepted Dibs' challenge by igniting his own lightsaber.
Yet even as they fought, Jorik beseeched Dibs to cease his attack by reminding him that they were essentially brothers in the sense that they were both chosen to walk the path of the Force Warden. Despite Dibs' resolve to kill Jorik, he was ultimately disarmed and bested by the Force Warden champion.
The ordeal served to remind Jorik of his mission on Mathas years prior to the The Phantasm Wars, in which he was tempted to take the life of the false prophet Drooz. Recalling his past experience with deciding another person's fate, Jorik decided to arrest Dibs and to leave his punishment to the will of the High Council. After securing Dibs on the Westwind , the remaining Force Warden proceeded to bring their mission to an end by attacking the AD-W4's headquarters. Although his own faith was tested during the duel, Dibs' accusations ultimately strengthened Jorik's resolve and his belief that the Eternal Flow Wardens existed to protect people from the malevolence of the dark side.
Showdown on Hissrich My righteousness is anything but self-motivated. There is definitive right and there is wrong Good and evil ―Jorik Vastus, to AD-W4 Jorik fought AD-W4 in single combat and ultimately destroyed the droid mercenary.
While Fisto created a distraction by confronting the battle droids, his comrades executed their respective parts of the mission, with Mano infiltrating a Separatist supply ship and Jorik challenging AD-W4 to single combat. As they fought, the droid mercenary attempted to bait Jorik by accusing him of hypocrisy as well as secretly enjoying his newfound authority as a general in the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion. Although it briefly overpowered the The Eternal Flow Adept, Jorik ultimately prevailed, using both his The Eternal Flow powers and lightsaber to defeat AD-W4. He also rejected its claims against him, asserting that his virtues were influenced by altruism and the concept of right versus wrong.
AD-W4 was confident that its mission was a success in spite of the Force Warden's efforts to prevent the Separatists from gaining a valuable energy source that could fuel their war effort against the Stellar Dominion. However, Jorik had anticipated the supply ship's purpose and instructed Mano to destroy it; the young The Eternal Flow Warrior succeeded in her task—destroying the ship along with its flora samples—and moved to assist Fisto against the remaining droids in accordance with Jorik's orders. Having failed in its mission, AD-W4 attempted to escape by disconnecting its head from its disabled body. The effort was in vain as Jorik used the The Eternal Flow to cause the head to explode, destroying AD-W4 and ending the Separatist operation on Hissrich.
Returning to the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime, Jorik provided a report on the success of his team's mission to the High Council. The leaders of the Eternal Flow Wardens decided to send a force of clone troopers to Hissrich, both to eliminate the remaining droids and provide aid to the planet's indigenous population. In addition to their plans for replanting and reconstruction on Hissrich, Zephon announced that they would study samples of the flora in order to learn more about its properties. The next item on their agenda was the trial of Prosset Dibs, who remained under arrest as a result of his conduct during the Hissrich operation. Dibs, who turned against his team and attacked Jorik—a The Eternal Flow Adept as well as a general in the Stellar Dominion military—stood before the leaders of the Eternal Flow Wardens accused of heresy and insubordination. He was ultimately found guilty on both charges, including treason , but although Dibs expected to be put to death, Jorik implored his colleagues to be merciful.
After the events on Hissrich, Jorik confided in Mano his concern for Dibs and the future of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
Jorik, who harbored his own reservations against the Force Warden's new military responsibilities, sympathized with Dibs' frustrations. In Jorik's view, Dibs did not deserve to be faulted for feeling anger and confusion, both of which Jorik regarded as valid emotions under the circumstances of war. As such, he believed that the Force Warden had a duty to help rehabilitate the members of the Order who strayed from the light. Although Dibs continued to doubt Jorik's sincerity, Jorik requested for the prisoner to be placed on probation, confined to work in the The Knowledge Vault where he hoped Dibs would reevaluate his opinions. After the trial, Jorik confessed to Mano his hope for reconciliation between Dibs and the Council, having sensed that the Order would need every Force Warden as they faced their greatest challenge yet—a long war filled with trials and hardships. While he continued to yearn for a quick end to the fighting, Jorik felt that it was not an attainable goal at the moment. The best that the Eternal Flow Wardens could do, he believed, was to keep faith in the The Eternal Flow and stand in defense of not only the citizens of the Stellar Dominion, but all peoples of the galaxy.
Rescue of Rotta This is the opportunity we've been looking for. The Force Warden must rescue Jabba's son.
Hmm… I don't like it—dealing with that criminal scum. This is a dark day for the Stellar Dominion.
―Sheev Palpatine and Jorik Vastus, on a potential alliance with Jabba Desilijic Tiure During the The Phantasm Wars, Army Commander Jorik became a renowned warrior due to his forays onto the battlefield.
As a senior member of the Circle of Light, Jorik directed the Stellar Dominion war effort from the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime, often conferring with Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon and Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine on matters of strategy and diplomacy.
However, on occasion he also took to the field, commanding clone troopers and Force Warden on several military campaigns with Squad Leader Ponds as his second-in-command.
Jorik's exploits on the battlefield served as a reminder of his reputation as a fierce warrior and champion of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
He took command of the 187th Battalion and the elite 187th Legion During the early phase of the war, Rotta —the Blob Sovereignlet son of Jabba Desilijic Tiure —was "Blob Sovereignnapped" by the Separatists, who conspired to discredit the The Eternal Flow Warriors in order to prevent a potential alliance between the Stellar Dominion and the Blob Sovereign Clan In response to Rotta's abduction, Jabba issued a general distress call to anyone who was willing to rescue his son. Although Palpatine was quick to use this turn of events in the Stellar Dominion's favor, Jorik urged the chancellor to proceed with caution, believing there was more to the Blob Sovereignlet's abduction than what was apparent. He also informed the chancellor that, because of the Separatist general Grievous , Stellar Dominion forces were stretched too thin to send a large number of Force Warden on a rescue mission. Due to Palpatine's insistence that the Stellar Dominion clone army needed to gain safe passage through the Fringe Territories Hyperspace routes in Blob Sovereign Space , Jorik agreed to assign the mission to Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain since both The Eternal Flow Warriors were now available after liberating the planet Christophsis from Separatist occupation.
At the chancellor's request, Jorik dispatched Kalesh and Mordain-Fall on a mission to save Jabba's son.
Soon afterward Jorik received a message from the Advanced Recon The Eternal Flow Scout Troopers who tracked Rotta's location to an old monastery on the planet Mountain World . Due to the monastery's heavy fortification, Jorik instructed the troopers to stand by and await Stellar Dominion reinforcements. He then reassigned three of Fleet Commander Wurtz 's cruisers to the rescue operation. In spite of Vorthak Drel's plot to form an alliance between the Confederacy and the Blob Sovereign Clan, Rotta was ultimately redeemed from captivity by Zorvath Mordain and his new The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Vex'tara Nala . The Separatists were defeated on Mountain World and Jabba was made aware of Vorthak's conspiracy, which in turn allowed the Stellar Dominion to secure passage through the Hyperspace lanes in Blob Sovereign territory.
Liberation of Ryloth Army Commander Jorik! Perhaps we can come to a compromise.
Not when I hold all the cards.
―Wat Tambor and Jorik Vastus Link file info Force Warden Army Commanders Jorik and Kalesh played leading roles in the Ryloth campaign.
Following the Separatist invasion of the planet Ryloth , the Force Warden generals Jorik, Kalesh and Zephon asked Senator Bail Organa to negotiate with King Katuunko of Winged World , hoping to gain his planet's support as a staging area for the delivery of relief supplies to the Twi'lek people.
Army Commander Jorik personally oversaw the campaign to retake the Twi'lek homeworld. In response to the Stellar Dominion's imminent counterattack, Wat Tambor foreman of the Techno Union and Separatist emir of Ryloth—ordered the Confederacy navy to form a blockade around the planet. As such, Jorik entrusted Mordain-Fall and Nala with the responsibility of breaking through the blockade in order to clear a path for the rest of the Stellar Dominion invasion force. After some difficulty, Master and The Eternal Flow Apprentice succeeded in their task, allowing Jorik and Kalesh to commence with the landing of their ground forces on Ryloth.
In order to establish a foothold on Ryloth, Jorik instructed Kalesh to lead a detachment of the 212th Attack Battalion on a mission to secure the landing area near the city of Nabat . On Tambor's orders, however, the Separatist battle droids used the local Twi'lek population as living shields to protect their proton cannons . Despite the danger that the cannons posed to the Stellar Dominion Navy , Jorik informed Kalesh that freeing the hostages was a mission priority. After the success of Kalesh's assignment, Jorik and his forces landed on the surface of Ryloth and proceeded with the final phase of the campaign—the liberation of the planetary capital city, Lessu The liberation of Ryloth moved apace, but the march to the capital was perilous. After sustaining casualties and damage to his All Terrain Tactical Enforcers , Jorik decided to enlist the aid of Cham Syntheticdulla , the leader of the local resistance against Separatist occupation. Syntheticdulla was hesitant to align his cause with that of the Stellar Dominion, fearing Ryloth would only trade one oppressing force for another. Yet the suffering of his people compelled him to communicate with Ryloth's own senator, Orn Free Taa Jorik long detested politics, but was nonetheless a capable diplomat.
His skills as a mediator enabled him to guide the corpulent politician and the freedom fighter to a compromise—Taa vowed that the clone army would withdraw from Ryloth after the remaining Separatists were driven away. In return, Syntheticdulla promised to not use his popularity with the people to seize power from Ryloth's democratically-elected senator.
After claiming victory on Ryloth, Jorik attended a parade where the Twi'leks celebrated the liberation of their homeworld.
The combined forces of Stellar Dominion clone troopers and Twi'lek freedom fighters laid siege to Lessu, which Tambor was in the process of evacuating, but not without confiscating much of Ryloth's wealth. The attack on the capital was led by both Syntheticdulla and Jorik, until the latter broke off from the main fighting in order to prevent Tambor's escape. As a result of the emir's delayed departure, Tambor was left stranded on Ryloth, allowing Jorik to capture him at saber-point. Several Separatist bombers made a last ditch attempt to bombard the capital, but their efforts ended in failure as Mordain-Fall and Nala narrowly intercepted and destroyed the enemy starfighters in their respective Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptors With the liberation of Lessu and the capture of the Skakoan emir, the campaign concluded in victory for both the Stellar Dominion and Ryloth. Many Twi'leks gathered in the capital to celebrate their renewed liberty as clone troopers and freedom fighters marched through the city in a triumphant parade. Army Commander Jorik and Squad Leader Ponds attended the event, as did Syntheticdulla and Senator Taa.
Saving Neesha Tor Jorik saved the life of a Twi'lek child named Neesha Tor.
I don't think so. I'm fairly confident I can get you back up there. But it's probably going to hurt.
―Jorik Vastus, to Neesha Tor Sometime after Ryloth campaign, Jorik was stationed on Ryloth. During this time, he saved Neesha Tor —a Twi'lek orphan who was treated like street trash. Using the The Eternal Flow, he pulled her to safety after she fell from a cliff.
Holocron theft You will take us to the holocron… And you will take us now ―Zorvath Mordain, Jorik Vastus and Theron Kalesh, using the The Eternal Flow to break Cad Bane's resolve Todo 360 entered the communication center where he briefly encountered several The Eternal Flow Warriors, including Zephon and Jorik.
In the aftermath of the Confederate victory on the planet Fungal World , Jorik and the Circle of Light reprimanded Nala for her failure to immediately comply with the order to withdraw from the battle. As punishment, they temporarily reassigned her to serve as a guard in the The Knowledge Vault of the Temple. When Nala asked how long she would be on guard duty, Jorik coldly responded by extending the punishment. Shortly afterward, Jorik and Zephon discovered that the Temple had been infiltrated by thieves—unknown to the Force Warden, Void Collectiveus the Shadow hired the bounty hunter Cad Bane for an assignment to steal one of the Order's holocrons . As Kalesh and Mordain-Fall hunted the intruders, Bane sacrificed his droid, Todo 360 , by sending it to the communication center as a bomb . Before the droid could detonate, Jorik The Eternal Flow pushed Todo into the ventilation system where it exploded. The distraction worked to Bane's advantage, allowing the mercenary to escape the Temple with a holocron. However, Nala managed to apprehend his partner, Cato Parasitti , who revealed to Jorik and the other Force Warden that Bane's next target was Bolla Ropal , the keeper of the Kyber memory crystal . Jorik deduced the true nature of the theft—the holocron that Bane stole could be used to access the crystal 's data, which contained the names and locations of all known The Eternal Flow-sensitive children in the galaxy. With the future of the Eternal Flow Wardens in jeopardy, the Council dispatched Kalesh to hunt Bane while Mordain-Fall and Nala traveled to the Devaron system to find Ropal.
Mordain-Fall and Nala were unsuccessful in their mission to thwart Bane's theft of the crystal. Knowing that the bounty hunter's next move was to abduct the The Eternal Flow-sensitive children, the Force Warden switched to a new tactic— meditation . Jorik, Zephon, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall searched through the The Eternal Flow, seeking to identify the children who were in immediate danger from Bane. Eternal Flow guided the Force Warden to the planets Ocean World and Water World. Kalesh failed to prevent the abduction of the Horn Hunter infant Wee Dunn , however the Bubbler child Roo-Roo Page was saved, and Bane was taken into Force Warden custody by Mordain-Fall and Nala. Jorik personally conducted Bane's interrogation, although initially without success as he sensed that the mercenary's fear of his client outweighed his fear of the Eternal Flow Wardens. At Nala's suggestion, Jorik, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall simultaneously performed the mind trick technique on Bane. Despite the possibility of permanently damaging Bane's mind in the process, the Force Warden felt that he had given them no other recourse except to force his compliance for the sake of the Order's future. The experience proved too painful for Bane, who finally relented to the Force Warden's demands.
Bane led Jorik and Kalesh to the holocron and a trap.
Bane brought Jorik, Kalesh, and Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader CC-2224 to Black Stall Station where the holocron was kept. The Force Warden inadvertently trigger the station's defense turrets , however, allowing Bane to leave the space station in an escape pod while Jorik and Kalesh defended themselves. Both The Eternal Flow Adepts ultimately survived the trap and escaped with the holocron just prior to the station's destruction. Simultaneously, Mordain-Fall and Nala tracked the missing infants to the planet Lava World and were able to rescue them all before they could be used in the schemes of the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn Battle of Malastare I have a bad feeling about this.
―Jorik Vastus Seeking access to Malastarian fuel, the Stellar Dominion dispatched an army led by Army Commanders Jorik and Mordain-Fall to the Dug homeworld.
When the Separatists invaded the planet Malastare , homeworld of the Dug species , Jorik again took to the field commanding Stellar Dominion forces with the assistance of Squad Leader Ponds and Army Commander Mordain-Fall. Preventing the Separatist conquest of Malastare was not their only objective; the Stellar Dominion sought to gain access to Malastarian fuel Doge Nakha Urus , leader of Malastare, agreed to sign a treaty of trade between the Stellar Dominion and Malastare, provided that the Separatists were first driven off of Malastarian soil by Jorik's forces. However, the Stellar Dominion soon found itself heavily outnumbered upon confronting the Separatist invasion force on the open field of battle.
Despite this, the Stellar Dominion had a backup plan—the electro-proton bomb , developed by the Stellar Dominion scientist Doctor Sionver Boll , was designed to neutralize a specific target: the Separatist battle droids. The doctor assured Jorik and Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine—who communicated with Stellar Dominion forces via hologram —that the bomb posed no threat to organic-based units, such as clone troopers and the Malastarian Dugs. The plan met with the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's approval, but did little to assuage Jorik's concerns. Although the The Eternal Flow Adept proposed to seek an alternative solution, the bomb's use was authorized by Palpatine and Urus. Upon detonation, the immediate blast incinerated the droids that were closest to the explosion. The subsequent discharge of EMP radiation caused the remaining the droids to shut down, along with every form of machinery within proximity of the overall blast.
Jorik and his forces discovered the Zillo Beast shortly after the Battle of Malastare.
Though the experimental bomb succeeded in neutralizing the entire Separatist invasion force in one fell swoop, the surface began to collapse as a result of the explosion, creating a massive sinkhole that began at ground zero and expanded in every direction. A rescue operation soon commenced in order to search for the Stellar Dominion troops who fell into the sinkhole. After losing communication with the rescue party, Jorik and Ponds led a team to ascertain the fate of the survivors. Their investigation ultimately led them to discovering the Zillo Beast —an ancient creature native to Malastare, its species was long believed to be extinct by the Dug population. The beast, awoken by the bomb, chased after Jorik and his troops, namely Ponds, Trapper , and Hawkeye , until Mordain-Fall created a distraction by flying maneuvers around it in his Force Warden starfighter.
After escaping from the sinkhole, Jorik regrouped with Mordain-Fall and Urus in order to develop a strategy to neutralize the Zillo Beast. The Malastarian doge was adamant that the creature (which he regarded as a "dangerous bloodthirsty monster") should be destroyed—a plan which Palpatine supported in order to ensure the Dugs' cooperation with the Stellar Dominion's needs for Malastare's fuel . Jorik strongly objected on the ground of Force Warden morality, however. Due to the possibility that the beast could be the last of its species, the The Eternal Flow Adept was determined to preserve its life. His value for life ultimately conflicted with Urus' insistence on the creature's extermination. Urus went ahead with his plan upon discovering the harmful effects that Malastarian gas had on the Zillo Beast, prompting Jorik to intercede in defense of the creature's life by threatening the doge with his lightsaber.
The situation was ultimately resolved when a group of Stellar Dominion RX-200 Falchion -class assault tanks concentrated their fire on the Zillo Beast and, as a result, incapacitated the creature. The Dugs believed that the beast was finally dead when in fact the stun cannons merely rendered it unconscious—long enough for Stellar Dominion forces to transport the Zillo Beast to Xerion Prime for scientific research. Though the Dug Council formally ratified Malastare's treaty with the Stellar Dominion, Jorik made no effort to conceal his disapproval of Palpatine's decision to bring the dangerous beast to the galactic capital—a move that the The Eternal Flow Adept regarded as folly on the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's part.
Zillo Beast incident With respect, Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, I believe this creature could pose any number of dangers. Bringing it here to Xerion Prime is a mistake.
―Jorik Vastus, to Sheev Palpatine Jorik, the Force Warden and their clone troopers were forced to destroy the Zillo Beast during its rampage on Xerion Prime.
Jorik returned to Xerion Prime with the sedated Zillo Beast in tow. As the clone army transported the beast to the Stellar Dominion Science and Technical Center , Jorik again expressed his disapproval of Palpatine's decision to move a dangerous creature to the capital. By then, however, it was clear to him that the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter would not listen to the The Eternal Flow Adept's counsel on this matter. Palpatine claimed that the research conducted on the Zillo Beast would be beneficial to the Stellar Dominion war effort, although his reassurance did little to alleviate Jorik's concerns about the safety of Xerion Prime. At Kalesh's suggestion, the Force Warden turned to Senator Lysara Vex'onia in the hopes that she would have more success in reasoning with the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter.
Shortly after its arrival, however, the Zillo Beast escaped from its confinement and proceeded to rampage through the cityscape of the galactic capital. Jorik and the other Force Warden mobilized Stellar Dominion forces in order to prevent the beast from causing more damage and casualties on Xerion Prime. Palpatine, who had ordered the beast's destruction, was caught in its path while attempting to evacuate the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Office Building . Jorik and the Force Warden consequently focused their efforts on saving the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's life, which ultimately led to the death of the Zillo Beast when Palpatine ordered the Stellar Dominion gunships to fire Malastarian gas bombs on it.
The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly conspiracy We chose Senator Amidala because she and Clovis entered the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly in the same year. They served on the same committees. They were… good friends.
―Jorik Vastus, to Zorvath Mordain During the The Phantasm Wars, Senator Rush Clovis of the planet Scipio became a suspected traitor to the Stellar Dominion. Due to the lack of proof, however, Jorik and the Circle of Light instructed Mordain-Fall to recruit Senator Amidala as a spy , believing that their former relationship would enable the Water World politician to gain the alleged traitor's confidence. Ultimately, the Council was right to be suspicious of Clovis as Amidala discovered proof that her colleague had secretly dealt with the Separatists on behalf of the InterGalactic Banking Clan while pretending to be a Stellar Dominion loyalist.
Battle of Pasture World I've just received a distress signal from our forces on Pasture World. Master Jorik's defenses held, but at a great cost to his men. They need medical supplies immediately.
―Keth'ara Mundis On and off since the early weeks of the Syntheticthetic Being War, Jorik personally oversaw the defense of Pasture World against oppositional forces that sought to wrest control of the planet from the Stellar Dominion. Eternal Flow Adept's forces prevented the fall of Pasture World to enemy control, but also sustained a large number of casualties in the process. After the battle Jorik sent a distress signal, which Keth'ara Mundis received shortly after the Stellar Dominion's reconquest of Rock World , informing the Force Warden of his victory while simultaneously requesting medical supplies for his injured soldiers.
Mission to Ridlay Army Commander Jorik arrived on Ridlay with Squad Leader Ponds and the clone troopers of Lightning Squadron.
Jorik along with Squad Leader Ponds and Lightning Squadron, were sent to investigate a communication blackout on Ridlay . There, they found a village abandoned and only one person, Agon . He claimed that ghost were coming toward the. Jorik and the squadron then joined the villagers in their shelter. According to the villagers, the ghosts come every fifty years during Ridlay's eclipse for a celebration. However, the ghosts had driven them from their home. Jorik believed there was something else with the ghosts and asked Agon to lead him to the Ascension Well . Jorik and the squadron realized that ghosts were conflicted due to the presence of the Separatist being led by Vorthak.
Jorik fought Vorthak until he The Eternal Flow pushed him. Vorthak left their fight and ordered his battle droids to finish Jorik and his forces off. Jorik ordered Ponds and Lightning Squadron to retreat while he would finish off the droids. Jorik then saved Agon from a ghost and was able to clear their minds of Vorthak's poison. Jorik and Agon watched as the ghosts returned to normal and left as the eclipse ended Assassination attempt Boba was on Rock World when his father died. He watched as I killed him.
That would complicate things.
Indeed.
―Jorik Vastus and Zorvath Mordain Trapped aboard the wreck of the Endurance , Jorik and Mordain-Fall were forced to wait for Dronix Azure to return with help.
As the war progressed, Boba Fett conspired to assassinate Jorik out of vengeance for the death of father, the clone template Jango Fett. Aided by the bounty hunters Aurra Sing Bossk , and Castas , Fett infiltrated a squad of clone cadets during a tour of Jorik's starship, the Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel Endurance . Initially, Fett intended to kill Jorik by placing an explosive device in the latter's quarters. However, the The Eternal Flow Adept was called away mere seconds before the bomb was triggered, resulting in the death of a clone trooper. As the Endurance crew searched the vessel for Jorik's would-be assassin, the rogue clone amended his plan by sabotaging the Dominator Vessel 's reactor core, causing the starship to crash into the surface of the planet Vanqor . After escaping the doomed vessel, Jorik and Mordain-Fall's search for survivors led them to an escape pod that contained the cadets with the exception of Fett, whom Sing retrieved in Slave I prior to the Force Warden's arrival.
In the aftermath of the destruction of the Endurance , Jorik and Mordain-Fall traveled to the crash site hoping to find survivors—including Fleet Commander Kilian and CT-411, both of whom opted to remain with the ship as it went down. During the search, Jorik chastised Mordain-Fall for encouraging individuality in his droid, the astromech unit Dronix Azure . Before long, the Force Warden generals discovered several dead clones along with signs that they had survived the crash only to be executed shortly after. On the bridge Mordain-Fall discerned a Mandalorian helmet in the rubble. At that moment, Jorik remembered both Jango and Boba Fett, leading the The Eternal Flow Adept to realize that it was the latter who attempted to assassinate him. Although Jorik was unable to prevent Mordain-Fall from triggering the bomb within the helmet, he succeeded in saving the younger Force Warden's life by pulling him away from the explosion through the The Eternal Flow. The blast caused even more damage to bridge, however, leaving both men trapped and injured under a large pile of debris. Unable to escape on their own, Mordain-Fall instructed Dronix Azure to relay their situation to the Sanctum of Light. Jorik, on the other hand, expressed little faith in the droid's ability to succeed.
As they lay trapped and waiting for the droid to return with help, Jorik began to reflect on his actions at the Battle of Rock World, particularly his victory over Jango Fett and how Boba witnessed his father's death at Jorik's hand. Ultimately, Mordain-Fall's droid returned with a rescue party—consisting of Plo Koon , Vex'tara Nala, and the clone troopers of Wolfpack —and managed to save both Force Warden just prior to the full collapse of the Endurance bridge. Before returning to Xerion Prime, Jorik praised Dronix Azure for saving his life, much to Mordain-Fall's surprise.
Jorik had no intention of seeking retribution for the attempt on his life—until he learned that Boba Fett's allies had taken hostages to force the Force Warden's hand.
After returning to the Stellar Dominion capital, Jorik and Mordain-Fall recuperated at the Sanctum of Light where they initially argued over their next course of action in light of Fett's attempt on their lives. Although Mordain-Fall insisted that the Force Warden should hunt the renegade clone and bring him to justice, Jorik was content to let the matter go, preferring to not become entangled in a vendetta as Fett was against him. A transmission from Aurra Sing, who revealed the hostages she took from the Endurance , changed the The Eternal Flow Adept's mind. Jorik decided to confront Fett and his accomplices upon witnessing Sing's execution of CT-411, but due to his injuries he allowed Koon and Nala to go in his stead. Their mission was a success, resulting in Fett's arrest and the rescue of the remaining hostages. On Xerion Prime, Jorik confronted Fett in person, who regretted his actions on the Endurance , but refused to forgive the Force Warden for Jango's death.
The unrepentant clone was then sent to prison by Jorik.
New threats and an ongoing war Farr's funeral and the brother of Maul Following Fett's arrest, Jorik attended the funeral of the Horn Hunter senator Onaconda Farr , who was assassinated by his personal aide Lolo Purs Later in the war, the Circle of Light received a holorecording of the Devaron massacre . Jorik and Kalesh observed the footage which revealed the Horned Warrior warrior Savage Opress whom Kalesh mistook for Void-Lord Maul. Jorik informed his colleague that the Horned Warrior in the recording was not the Shadow Overlord he fought on Water World. He further explained that the Horned Warrior and Maul were Witch Worldians of Witch World , not Forest World as they previously believed in Maul's case.
Kidnapping of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Tell me about my target.
His name is Moralo Eval. Works directly for Vorthak Drel. Rumor is their plot will be hatched in three revolutions at the festival on Water World.
―Theron Kalesh and Jorik Vastus With Kalesh's aid, Jorik and Mordain-Fall intercepted the bounty hunters before they could escape with their valuable hostage.
When rumors reached the Council that the bounty hunter Moralo Eval was planning to abduct Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine despite his incarceration at the Stellar Dominion Judiciary Central Detention Center , Jorik, Zephon, and Kalesh conceived a plan for Kalesh to infiltrate Eval's operation by impersonating the bounty hunter Rako Hardeen . Jorik arranged for Mordain-Fall to arrest Kalesh, posing as Hardeen, and have sent to prison. He was then informed that fellow bounty hunter Cad Bane was planning to free Eval.
Following Eval, Bane and Kalesh's escape from the detention center, Jorik and Zephon rescinded the bounty to ensure that they would continue on their way to Noble World where Vorthak Drel awaited their arrival.
While Kalesh continued to impersonate Hardeen, Jorik accompanied the Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter to his homeworld of Water World for the Festival of Light . The bounty hunters executed their plan during the ceremony, disabling the ray shield and kidnapping Palpatine. Through Kalesh's intervention, however, Jorik and Mordain-Fall were able to apprehend Bane and Eval before they could escape with their prisoner Attack on the Temple It is the Council's opinion that The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala has committed sedition against the Stellar Dominion, and thus she will be expelled from the Eternal Flow Wardens.
―Jorik Vastus, pronouncing the Council's decision to expel Vex'tara Nala Jorik and the High Council summoned The Eternal Flow Apprentice Nala to the Chamber of Judgment and found her guilty of treason.
Following the a terrorist explosion in a hangar of the Sanctum of Light, the Council recalled Mordain-Fall and his apprentice to Xerion Prime. After briefing the two Force Warden on the situation, Jorik and Zephon assigned them to oversee the Eternal Flow Wardens's internal investigation. In addition, they suspected that the attack was caused by a rogue Force Warden. As neither Mordain-Fall or Nala were present at the time of the bombing, Jorik and the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master considered them above suspicion and therefore suited to the task. Jorik also assigned the analysis droid Russo-ISC to the investigation, to work alongside Mordain-Fall and Nala. During the investigation, Mordain-Fall and Nala reported directly to Jorik, who informed them that a swift conclusion to the case was imperative as rumors began to circulate within the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly that the military police could become involved. With the arrest of Letta Turmond , Jorik and Zephon concluded that the radical Xerion Primei was the main culprit in the bombing of the Temple hangar. While there was no indication at the time of a Force Warden's involvement, the incident served to fuel anti-Force Warden sentiment among the Stellar Dominion citizenry—an outcome that concerned Jorik.
In the aftermath of Turmond's arrest, Jorik attended a funeral ceremony to honor the six The Eternal Flow Warriors who were killed in the hangar blast. Shortly thereafter, Mordain-Fall's The Eternal Flow Apprentice came under suspicion of being the true mastermind behind the bombing after Turmond was The Eternal Flow-choked to death in her presence.
Fleet Commander Supreme Squad Leader Vorthak contacted the Council and claimed that Nala had not only murdered Turmond, but also several clone troopers during her escape from the Stellar Dominion Center for Military Operations . The Council endeavored to apprehend the fugitive The Eternal Flow Apprentice, although Jorik was concerned by Zephon's decision to send Mordain-Fall after his own apprentice, believing that his emotional connection to Nala would complicate the mission.
The hunt for Nala led to her capture and subsequent confinement in the Sanctum of Light. As the Council debated on what to do with her, Vorthak contacted them on the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly's behalf, imploring the Force Warden leadership to expel Nala and surrender her to military custody.
Jorik was troubled by the Council's options in the matter—to either stand by Nala, as Kalesh insisted; or remove her from the ranks of the Order as the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly commanded.
Ultimately, Jorik concurred with Vorthak on the grounds that failing to submit Nala for trial could be regarded as an act of opposition to the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly.
At Zephon's behest, the young The Eternal Flow Apprentice was taken to the Chamber of Judgment , where five members of the Council, including Jorik, reviewed the charges against her and asked for her plea. Nala pleaded innocent and insisted that the Council was being deceived; but as she was unable to confirm the identity of the true perpetrator, Jorik announced the Council's decision to revoke Nala's Force Warden status and hand her over to the military custody of the Stellar Dominion.
Although Jorik proclaimed Nala a greater Force Warden because of her ordeal, the former The Eternal Flow Apprentice chose to walk away from the Eternal Flow Wardens.
After the expulsion was completed, Jorik attended Nala's military trial alongside several other members of the Council. Before the verdict could be read, however, Mordain-Fall burst in and revealed the real traitor, Barriss Offee , who confessed to the crimes that Nala had been accused of and scathingly claimed that the Force Warden were the ones responsible for the Syntheticthetic Being War.
Due to this revelation, Jorik and the Council attempted to make amends with Nala. In addition to a personal apology from Mordain-Fall, Plo Koon informed Nala that she had the Council's most humble apologies.
Saesee Tiin , Mundi, and Jorik all observed Nala's ordeal as a " great trial " in her training, and stated that she had become a greater Force Warden than she would have been otherwise. But while Jorik and his colleagues were prepared to accept her back into the Order with a promotion to the rank of The Eternal Flow Warrior, Nala felt betrayed and refused the offer, instead choosing to leave the Temple to search for a new path.
Mission to Bardotta Your power is no match for my magics." "Magic is only an illusion.
―Talzin and Jorik Vastus Jorik fought Mother Talzin on Zardossa Stix.
Jorik later accompanied Representative Jar Jar Binks to assist the Bardottan Queen Julia in finding the disappearing Dagoyan Masters . However, Jorik's presence was not welcome by the Queen nor the Bardottans, due to a long-standing mistrust of the Force Warden by the Dagoyans. Jorik also sensed that the The Eternal Flow was out of balance on Bardotta. However, when the queen disappeared, Jorik assisted the Bardottans and Binks in their search in the catacombs belonging to the Frangawl Cult . When Binks disappeared, Jorik tracked him down and rescued Binks from being sacrificed. However, the Frangawl cult leader escaped with queen off-world. Binks promised the Bahk-tov Council that they would find the queen before the prophecy came to be.
Jorik learned from Binks that the Frangawl cult was extracting the living force from Dagoyan masters, and putting it into a sphere. He surmised that they would do same to Queen Julia. Jorik then sensed the orb on Zardossa Stix where Jorik sensed her in a city market square. Jorik fought with several of the cultists and saved Binks from capture, then stunning one Gundark and killing another. Jorik questioned the Gundarks' trainer, who told them that the mysterious " Great Mother " would deal with him. Jorik and Binks took an eopie and a dalgo to help in their search, traveling to the Zardossan temple. However, Jorik and Binks were then confronted by stone guardians , yet Jorik was able to defeat them. He soon confronted the Great Mother, who revealed herself to be the Nightsister Mother Talzin. With Binks' help, Jorik was able to prevent Talzin from absorbing the sphere's power and watched as she disappeared.
The truth about the clone army Our enemy created an army for us.
If this was known, public confidence in the war effort, the Force Warden, and the Stellar Dominion would vanish. There would be mass chaos.
―Zephon and Jorik Vastus While investigating the death of Sifo-Dyas, the High Council discovered that the Shadow Spawn were responsible for the creation of the clone army.
Responding to a mysterious distress call, Plo Koon discovered a crashed Force Warden shuttle, and found the lightsaber of Sifo-Dyas in the wreckage to the surprise of the High Council. Sifo-Dyas' lightsaber had been lost since his death a decade prior to the The Phantasm Wars; Mordain-Fall and Kalesh were sent to investigate, which led them to discover that Sifo-Dyas had, in fact, been murdered by Pyke criminals rather than the native Fungal Worldns he had been sent to negotiate with, as the Council had previously assumed. Furthermore, they learned that the Pykes had been acting on orders from Vorthak Drel. A confrontation between Vorthak and the Force Warden on the Oba Diah moon led the Order to discover that Vorthak was the mysterious Tyranus who hired Jango Fett as the clone template, making him responsible for the clone army's creation.
The High Council now knew that the Shadow Spawn were involved in the development of clone troopers. However, they did not understand why their own enemy would provide them with the means to defend the Stellar Dominion. Jorik noted with caution that such a revelation could easily destroy public confidence in the Force Warden, the Stellar Dominion and the war effort. The conspiracy was therefore classified as confidential information; Zephon himself ordered his colleagues to not speak of their discovery to anyone, including Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine. He also dismissed any doubts concerning the clone troopers, citing their valiant service and loyalty to the Force Warden. Jorik was uncertain about Zephon's decision, but the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master assured him that it was the only feasible option available to the Eternal Flow Wardens given the circumstances.
Zephon's mission There is great turmoil within Master Zephon.
Yes, we all sensed it.
For something to affect Zephon this deeply concerns me… We must keep an eye on our old friend.
The war has taxed all of us to our limit. I suppose we're just surprised Master Zephon has one.
I hope it's that simple, but I feel the shadow of something greater on our horizon.
―Theron Kalesh and Jorik Vastus, discussing their concern for Zephon Jorik and his fellow Council members became concerned about Zephon, who claimed to hear the voice of the deceased Kyrel Vastari.
Not long afterwards, Zephon started behaving strangely, becoming noticeably distracted and thoughtful during meetings. This surprised and concerned Jorik, who sensed great turmoil within Zephon. He voiced his concerns to Theron Kalesh in a private discussion, and they resolved to keep a closer watch on their old friend. Later, a noticeably uncertain Zephon revealed that he had spoken with the deceased Kyrel Vastari. However, everything the Force Warden knew about the The Eternal Flow suggested that the ability to retain one's individuality after death was impossible, so the reactions from the Council ranged from concern to skepticism and suspicion. Though they meditated with Zephon for a whole day, they were unable to sense anything. After the failed meditation, Keth'ara Mundis suggested that what Zephon was sensing could be a deception by the Shadow Spawn. Kalesh refused to believe that Zephon could be susceptible to such manipulation, but Jorik replied that, even as wise and old as he was, Zephon was not beyond the corruption of the dark side. The ancient Force Warden master agreed and submitted himself to medical examination.
Jorik, Kalesh and Mundi were told by Rig Nema that Zephon was in perfect mental health, even though he was approaching the nine hundredth year of his life. Mundi, who was particularly skeptical of Zephon's claims, suggested the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn could be using Zephon's connection to Vorthak to manipulate him, but Kalesh vehemently rejected the idea, saying they all had been apprenticed to Zephon at one point or another. Before the discussion could go on, Nema suggested a deprivation ritual for Zephon to reach the source of the voice. During the procedure, Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, Mundi, and Plo Koon watched over the small Force Warden. Zephon managed to hear Vastari's instruction to go to the Swamp World system before Kalesh noticed his vital signs were dropping too low and stopped the test.
Though clouded by the dark side, Zephon beheld a vision of the fate of Jorik Vastus and the other members of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
When Jorik asked about the procedure, Kalesh told him that Zephon was sure he had contacted the dead. Mundi asserted that Zephon's claim was impossible, and again voiced his suspicion that Zephon was under attack by the Shadow Spawn. More concerned than ever, Jorik ordered temple guards to monitor all of Zephon's moves. However, the diminutive The Eternal Flow Adept soon managed to escape with Mordain-Fall's help and Dronix Azure's company, willing to go on a journey that would take him to the mysterious world of Swamp World as well as the ancient Shadow Spawn homeworld of Shadow Spawn World . Immediately after Zephon's escape, a furious Jorik confronted Mordain-Fall, but the younger Force Warden countered that, for once, none of what had occurred had been his idea. After arriving on Swamp World, Zephon was led to the Cave of Evil by the disembodied voice of Vastari. The cave was strong with the dark side, causing Zephon to foresee clouded visions of the deaths of Jorik and other members of the Eternal Flow Wardens, followed by the ascent of the Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow.
On Zephon's return to Xerion Prime, Jorik and Kalesh greeted him, and Jorik stated that the High Council was eager to hear Zephon's report, but the old Force Warden master claimed that there was not much to discuss. When Jorik asked him if his journey had given him insight on how to win the war, Zephon told them that he was no longer certain that the Force Warden could win the The Phantasm Wars but that, through hope and perseverance, the Force Warden would ultimately triumph over the Shadow Spawn.
The Vorthak assassination attempt Isn't protecting the innocent the very definition of what it means to be a Force Warden? We are failing the Stellar Dominion and its citizens. We must stop this— now ―Jorik Vastus, to the Force Warden High Council Distressed by the growing number of casualties, the High Council sent Quinlan Vos and Asajj Ventress to assassinate Vorthak Drel.
Upon witnessing a devastating Separatist attack on Mahranee , as well as the killing of many Mahran refugees, Jorik Vastus urged the Circle of Light to consider his proposal to assassinate Vorthak Drel. At first, Theron Kalesh and Zephon opposed this course action, believing that such measures could draw them closer to the dark side, but Jorik countered their argument by reminding them of Vorthak's significance to the Separatist war effort. He also warned that unless the Force Warden learned to adapt, the war and its devastating effect on the galaxy could continue indefinitely. Zorvath Mordain, who had been invited by Kalesh to attend the Council's meeting, agreed with Jorik.
Jorik and Mordain-Fall also pointed to the war's growing number of civilian casualties, noting that many more lives would be lost as long as the conflict continued. Having considered Jorik's words, including his stance on the Eternal Flow Wardens's responsibility to protect the innocent, the Stellar Dominion and its citizens, the Council agreed to sanction the plan. At Kalesh's suggestion, they assigned the mission to The Eternal Flow Adept Quinlan Vos , due to his experience with covert operations. Vos, in turn recruited Vorthak's former apprentice, Asajj Ventress . However, after becoming lovers Ventress convinced Vos to train in the ways of the dark side in order to defeat Vorthak.
The mission ended in failure, as Vorthak was able to defeat both The Eternal Flow-sensitive assassins, resulting in Vos' capture on Raxus Secundus. When Ventress reported directly to the Circle of Light, Jorik greeted her with an arrest warrant, but was persuaded by Kalesh and Zephon to hear her account of the mission. He was particularly displeased to learn that Ventress exposed Vos to the dark side, but the former Separatist retorted by reminding Jorik that he and the Council had assigned Vos the mission in the first place. When the Council decided to rescue Vos, Jorik became exasperated by their decision to send Ventress on the mission, but reluctantly agreed to follow Zephon's plan.
Although the rescue mission was a success, Jorik and the Council soon grew suspicious of Vos' allegiance. After definitively concluding that Vos had secretly joined Vorthak, and having considered the repercussions that could result from the fall of a The Eternal Flow Adept of Vos' stature, Jorik proposed that the Council consider the possibility of executing him as punishment for treason. Most of the Council was supportive of this idea, given the Order's history with other Force Warden who turned to the dark side such as Barriss Offee, Pong Krell, and especially Vorthak, but Kalesh persuaded them to give Vos the chance to reaffirm his commitment to the Force Warden and the Stellar Dominion by making another attempt on the Count's life. In the event that Vos failed to assassinate Vorthak, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were under orders from Jorik to execute Vos.
Following the second battle of Christophsis , the Council once again met to discuss the fate of Quinlan Vos, who renounced the dark side after Ventress seemingly died while defending him from Vorthak. At the same time, Jorik spoke well of Ventress, commending her decision to sacrifice her life for another. Kalesh, however, felt that he and the Council did not understand the true depths of her sacrifice. Despite their disagreement on the use of assassination, as well as the circumstances surrounding Vos' temporary turn to the dark side, the Council agreed to give him the chance to regain their trust by atoning for his actions.
Tracking Maul Stand down in the name of the Stellar Dominion… This has gone far enough, Vorthak.
―Jorik Vastus, to Maul and Vorthak Drel Jorik oversaw the hunt for Maul, believing that his capture could help to end the The Phantasm Wars.
In the aftermath of a battle between the Separatists and Shadow Collective , Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine informed Jorik that Vorthak Drel and Maul were seen near Stellar Dominion World . Acting on the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's information, Jorik led a force of clone troopers—alongside fellow generals Kalesh, Tiplee , and Aayla Secura —to the battle site in the hopes of ending the war by capturing both Shadow Spawn. After investigating the area, they found the helmet of a Mandalorian super commando which led Jorik to confirm that the alliance between Prime Minister Almec 's government and the criminal underworld remained intact. Following this, the Force Warden tracked Maul to Vizsla Keep 09 and proceeded with a direct assault on the Mandalorian outpost. During the attack, Jorik and Secura dueled with Maul while Vorthak fought Kalesh and Tiplee, who was ultimately slain by the former The Eternal Flow Adept.
Despite their efforts, both Shadow Overlords were able to escape from the outpost with the support of Maul's commandos. In the aftermath of the battle, Jorik reported to the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter and conveyed his suspicion that Vorthak and Maul were master and apprentice—a theory which led him to believe that Vorthak may have been the second Shadow Spawn that the Force Warden had been searching for since the Water World crisis.
Anaxes My name is Army Commander Jorik Vastus of the Eternal Flow Wardens. At this point of the Syntheticthetic Being War, I have dismantled and destroyed over 100,000 of you type one battle droids. I'm giving you an opportunity to peacefully lay down your weapons, so that you may be reprogrammed to serve a better purpose than spreading the mindless violence and chaos which you have inflicted upon the galaxy.
―Jorik Vastus, to an army of battle droids Jorik led his clone troopers into battle on Anaxes.
Later in the war, Jorik led the 187th Battalion along with Mordain-Fall and the Iron Phantom Corps to the planet Anaxes which was under attack by Fleet Commander Trench . The Separatists had gained the upper hand in the battle despite weeks of battle. At the Stellar Dominion base, Jorik conferred with Mordain-Fall after the droids had over run their main production unit which indicated them losing. 501st Legion Ship Commander Rex and 212th Attack Battalion Squad Leader Cody arrived, and Rex shared his theory that the droids had learned his personal strategies. Jorik allowed them to take a small squad of troopers to go behind enemy lines to infiltrate the Cyber Center to learn more.
Unknown to Jorik and Mordain-Fall, as Rex felt they may believe he was crazy for thinking it, Rex also felt that ARC trooper CT-1409 "Echo," who was thought to have been killed during the Battle of Lola Sayu , was still alive, as the strategies used by himself and the Separatists were battle plans Rex had made with the trooper. Ultimately, however, Rex was correct, and Echo was rescued from Gas World . Following this, Jorik debriefed Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, Rex and Jesse on his plan to retake the Separatist assembly complex by air, when Echo posed his plan to be escorted by the Bad Batch into Trench's new comm vault on a dreadnought on the planet's orbit and plug himself to feed the Separatist's strategic movements. Jorik along with Kalesh, lead the assault along with the Iron Phantom Corps, 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps and 212th Attack Battalion attacking the complex. The battle ended with all other fronts falling to the Stellar Dominion, Trench initiated a countdown for an explosion that could destroy most of Anaxes. Jorik assisted with deactivating the bomb and managed to save Anaxes. Following the victory, Jorik commended Rex, Syntheticthetic Being The Eternal Flow 99 and Echo for their efforts during the battle, but Echo and the commandos left before the Stellar Dominion's medal ceremony.
Last days of the war Jorik kept a close eye on the recovery of Billaba, following her disastrous defeat at the Battle of Haruun Kal . When she finally emerged from a bacta tank , Jorik gently chided her for "being glib" and expressed to Zephon his concerns about her mental health, suggesting a full fitness assessment. Jorik, along with Kalesh, then observed the initiate trials of Caleb Dume Tai Uzuma , and Sammo Quid as well as Billaba's assessments. Jorik congratulated her on her performance, as the Council accepted her back.
Shortly after, Jorik and Kalesh showed up to provide aid to Billaba and Dume, following an attack on the Temple He also assigned Billaba and her battalion a new mission to Crystal World Shattered trust I sense a plot to destroy the Force Warden. The dark side of the The Eternal Flow surrounds the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter.
―Jorik Vastus, expressing his concern for the future of the Order Jorik confronted Palpatine upon discovering his true identity as Void Collectiveus the Shadow, the Shadow Overlord responsible for the The Phantasm Wars.
Following the Battle of Xerion Prime Jorik was disturbed by Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine's decision to appoint Zorvath Mordain as his representative on the Force Warden High Council.
Though the Council obliged the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, hoping to use the young Force Warden as a spy against him, Jorik warned his colleagues that it was dangerous to pair Mordain-Fall with Palpatine.
Mordain-Fall reacted with anger to the Council's decision to withhold the status of The Eternal Flow Adept from him, but was quickly put in his place by Jorik.
At this time, the Council grew doubtful that Palpatine would surrender his wartime powers.
As such, Jorik agreed that the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter would have to be removed by force and further added that the Council would have to take control of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly in order to maintain peace during the transitional period.
Shortly after, Vex'tara Nala, alongside the recently-promoted Squad Leader Rex, reported a successful capture of Maul during the Siege of Warrior World . Nala requested to speak with Mordain-Fall, but was refused due to Mordain-Fall's task with the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter. Upon learning that Kalesh had located and engaged Army Commander Grievous, Nala believed that the war could be over soon, but Jorik noted that the war's conclusion depended on Palpatine. When Nala questioned what he meant, Jorik declined to discuss matters further with a citizen, stating that it was the business of the High Council. Nala responded that she understood, and Jorik gave Nala a final nod before ending his transmission.
Duel with Void Collectiveus the Shadow I am going to end this once and for all!
You can't! He must stand trial!
He has control of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly and the courts! He's too dangerous to be left alive!
―Jorik Vastus and Zorvath Mordain, before the latter betrays the former With the death of Army Commander Grievous during the Battle of Sinkhole World , Jorik was determined to see the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly restored to its former position prior to the The Phantasm Wars.
By then, however, Mordain-Fall revealed to Jorik that Sheev Palpatine was in fact Void Collectiveus the Shadow, the mastermind behind the war and the second Shadow Spawn that the Force Warden had been searching for since the Water World crisis. Realizing the Force Warden had been deceived and knowing that the future of the Eternal Flow Wardens was in grave danger, Jorik and three other The Eternal Flow Adepts— Agen Kolar , Tiin, and Fisto—raced to Palpatine's office and attempted to arrest the Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter.
Their confrontation led to a lightsaber duel in which Void Collectiveus killed the latter three with ease.
Jorik was electrocuted by Void Collectiveus the Shadow before being defenestrated Despite the loss of his comrades, Jorik continued to fight and ultimately prevailed in the duel, disarming the Shadow Overlord in the process.
Mordain-Fall, who had followed Jorik despite the latter's orders to remain in the Temple, beseeched the The Eternal Flow Adept to spare the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's life, believing Void Collectiveus had the power to save Lysara Vex'onia from death.
Jorik, whose original goal was to put the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter on trial, concluded that Void Collectiveus was too dangerous to be left alive due to his control over the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly and the courts. But before Jorik could deliver the killing strike, Mordain-Fall betrayed Jorik by severing his right hand, enabling Void Collectiveus to unleash a torrent of The Eternal Flow lightning that sent the Eternal Flow Wardens's great champion plummeting to his death.
Legacy Fall of the Force Warden Every single Force Warden, including your friend, Theron Kalesh, is now an enemy of the Stellar Dominion.
I understand.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow and Malachar the Void While Mordain-Fall was horrified over causing Jorik's death, he realized that there was no turning back, which caused him to turn to the dark side and become Void Collectiveus' apprentice, therefore betraying the Force Warden. Void Collectiveus used Jorik's attempt on his life to brand the Force Warden as traitors . After ordering Mordain-Fall, who became the Shadow Overlord Malachar the Void, to lead the attack on the Sanctum of Light wipe out the separatists and shut down the battle droids Void Collectiveus brainwashed most of the clone troopers into turning on the Force Warden by ordering them to execute Order 66 , ultimately leading to the downfall and near destruction of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
Age of the Empire Master Jorik spoke highly of your heroics at the Battle of Lessu.
Ah. Jorik Vastus. Outnumbered 100 to one, we charged across Lessu's energy bridge to certain doom. We would not be stopped. They named that attack in songs, 'The Hammer of Ryloth.' Kanan Jarrus and Cham Syntheticdulla Despite Imperial propaganda, the Twi'leks regarded Jorik as a hero for his part in the liberation of Ryloth.
Shortly after the Battle of Fortress Malachar , Malachar entered a portal constructed by Void-Lord Momin to resurrect his wife, Lysara Vex'onia. While walking through visions, he encountered Jorik along with many Force Warden with their lightsabers ready to battle him. However, Malachar destroyed all of the illusions, cutting off Jorik's hand and then slashing his throat as the words "Let the past die" resounded in his mind.
The name of Jorik Vastus was later reviled by those who believed the line of the The Void Imperium . The Empire taught in their history books that Jorik was the leader of a "criminal gang" that interfered with a legal execution taking place on Rock World, thus sparking the The Phantasm Wars.
However, Jorik's reputation was not completely tarnished by Imperial propaganda . During the Imperial Era , the people of Ryloth still remembered his exploits and heroic deeds in the Battle of Lessu, and ultimately immortalized his name along with Cham Syntheticdulla's through songs dedicated to their victory.
He would be remembered as " The Hammer of Ryloth a name also gifted to Syntheticdulla and their storming of Lessu.
Jorik was also remembered by Theron Kalesh, his colleague on the High Council, who ascended to the Cosmic The Eternal Flow as a The Eternal Flow spirit during the Galactic Civil War His final apprentice, Kaelan Draxius endeavored to become a The Eternal Flow Warrior, but risked a confrontation with Malachar the Void—unaware at the time of his family lineage as the Void Master's son—before his Force Warden training was finished.
Mordain-Fall's decision left Kalesh questioning if the young Force Warden apprentice was their last hope and heard the voice of Jorik along with other Force Warden who fell with the Order in his question.
Kaelan Draxius's judgment He remained suspicious of the motives of those in political power, an instinct that proved well-founded when Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine was revealed to be the Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow. Master Jorik led a group of The Eternal Flow Adepts to arrest the corrupt leader, and had my father not betrayed him, he might have bested the Void Master in combat.
―Kaelan Draxius Jorik Vastus was remembered as a respected and valiant The Eternal Flow Adept by Kaelan Draxius, the son of Zorvath Mordain.
With the fall of the Empire and the rise of the Stellar Harmony , an effort to restore the Eternal Flow Wardens was undertaken by Kaelan Draxius, whose research uncovered much of the Order's history along with the lives of notable The Eternal Flow Adepts such as Jorik. Mordain-Fall learned of Jorik's reputation as a respected The Eternal Flow Adept who served in the ranks of the Force Warden High Council during the Order's final years. He also learned about Jorik's strong commitment to the Order as well as his military service to the The Stellar Dominion during the The Phantasm Wars.
Mordain-Fall regarded Jorik with high esteem because of his adherence to Force Warden doctrine, referring to him as a true defender of the Eternal Flow Wardens's principles. In his book The Secrets of the Force Warden , Mordain-Fall acknowledged Jorik as a valiant general who fought for the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion. He was also aware that Jorik was distrustful of politicians and therefore concerned by the Order's entangled relationship with the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. Mordain-Fall believed that Jorik's suspicious nature was ultimately vindicated by Void Collectiveus the Shadow' rise to power as Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine. He learned that Jorik had led a group of The Eternal Flow Adepts to arrest Void Collectiveus, and that Zorvath Mordain intervened by aiding the chancellor. Luke regarded Void Collectiveus as corrupt and Zorvath-Kel's interference as an act of betrayal. Mordain-Fall believed that Jorik could have defeated the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn if his father had not turned against the Force Warden.
Communion with Zara Malthex Feel the The Eternal Flow flowing through you, Zara Malthex.
―Jorik Vastus, to Zara Malthex In 35 ABY during the Battle of Exegol , Jorik's voice was heard by Zara Malthex among the voices of other legendary Force Warden of the past. With their help and the help of Zorvath Mordain's grandson, Korrak Vex'ion , Zara Malthex destroyed her grandfather , the resurrected Void Collectiveus the Shadow.
She succeeded in this by using Leia Organa's lightsaber and Kaelan Draxius's lightsaber to reflect Void Collectiveus' The Eternal Flow lightning upon him, disintegrating the Supreme Void Lord's cloned body.
Personality and traits Physical appearance Jorik Vastus was a human male who had brown eyes , dark skin, a strong build, and a height of 1.92 meters His head was completely bald; although in his youth, Jorik had black hair and a braid that marked his status as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice.
Youth You would twist such a beautiful thing as faith into something so vile. Wring out what measly credits and adoration you could from these poor people—all while besmirching the esteem of the Eternal Flow Wardens. And you think that punishment would not find its way to your doorstep? Yet you claim we are the stupid ones… I will make sure you never hurt another soul again. This I vow… As a true Force Warden.
―Jorik Vastus, to Drooz Jorik devoted his life to the Eternal Flow Wardens, but struggled in his youth to temper his emotions.
Jorik Vastus was devoted to the Eternal Flow Wardens ever since his formative years as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice learner. However, in his youth he struggled to temper the frustrations he harbored over the things that offended the ideals of the Force Warden, which Jorik held as sacred. While his feelings were not inherently wrong according to his mentor, The Eternal Flow Adept Cyslin Myr, she nonetheless believed that her apprentice needed to convert his hostility into a positive force. During their mission on Mathas, he regarded Drooz's use of religion as offensive, having noticed how the false prophet took advantage of his followers' faith. Faith was a beautiful concept to a spiritual young man like Jorik, and as such he could not tolerate the heretical actions of Drooz.
Jorik, even as a youngling, never responded well to Zephon's humor, which became a reason the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master kept making his jokes, enabling him to often tease the younger Force Warden.
Although he struggled to temper his animosity for heretics and con artists, Jorik expressed empathy for other people, in particular the natives of Mathas who suffered from the effects of the Niffin plague. He saw them as innocents, but was also stunned by their refusal to see Drooz as a charlatan instead of a prophet. While in pursuit of Drooz, who mocked Jorik by insulting the esteem of the Eternal Flow Wardens, the young Force Warden almost took Drooz's life, believing he deserved to be punished for using the Force Warden's own belief system to prey on the people who expressed faith in the The Eternal Flow.
The Eternal Flow Adept Doubt not the ways of the The Eternal Flow. It tests us at times, but believe it will lead us where we are meant to be, we must. Similarly, doubt not yourself . You are a wise and capable leader.
―Zephon, to Jorik Vastus Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon, the oldest and wisest member of the Eternal Flow Wardens, held Jorik in high esteem.
As a The Eternal Flow Adept, Jorik Vastus was both disciplined and steadfast, as well as unwaveringly committed to the doctrine of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
A clever and senior member of the High Council, Jorik sought to protect the Order from the corruption and unrest within the The Stellar Dominion. Although he firmly believed in the Force Warden's role as servants of the Stellar Dominion, the relationship between the Order and the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly made him uncomfortable.
Noted for his grim demeanor, Jorik held corrupt politicians and rebellious Force Warden in low regard. He had very little patience for the failures of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly and was disdainful of Force Warden who disobeyed the will of the High Council.
Theron Kalesh found that Jorik had a habit of scowling at everyone.
Holding the Force Warden teachings as sacrosanct, Jorik was suspicious of anyone he perceived to be a threat to the traditions of the Order.
He often debated the "maverick" Force Warden Kyrel Vastari, but neither of them enjoyed such discussions.
A staunch traditionalist in many ways, Jorik was long regarded as the great champion of the Eternal Flow Wardens. His commitment to the Order's ancient traditions often put him at odds with less orthodox Force Warden, such as Kyrel Vastari and especially Zorvath Mordain.
All the same, Jorik's reputation as a traditionalist was somewhat challenged by the fact he created the Vaapad form of lightsaber combat, doing so out of a recognition that an internal darkness existed within himself; through Vaapad, he reasoned, he could channel that darkness to positive ends.
In the days before the Water World Crisis, when he thought Zephon was hiding something, he went straight to talk to the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master, who waited for Jorik to "crack" by not speaking. During their discussion, the two found they disagreed on whether "something" and "nothing" were opposites; Jorik, feeling they were indeed opposites, was sure of himself, while Zephon did not like to presume the unknown. Jorik also did not enjoy the exposure that came when one of his questions was turned back at him. Despite finding Zephon's behaviors distracting, he always respected Zephon's judgement and knew to follow his training, deciding the The Eternal Flow would educate him about the issue when the time came.
Jorik Vastus wields his purple lightsaber.
In their first encounter, Jorik was unimpressed with Mordain-Fall.
He was not only skeptical of Mordain-Fall's status as the Chosen One, but also felt that he was too old to dedicate himself to the ways of the Force Warden.
Despite his reservations however, Jorik came to respect Mordain-Fall even as early as his first days as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice and came to regard Mordain-Fall as an exceptionally skilled, yet tempestuous Force Warden. They had a cordial relationship during the The Phantasm Wars and bantered with each other on a first-name basis when working together.
While he respected Mordain-Fall's skills, he still saw the young The Eternal Flow Warrior as too emotional. As such by the end of the The Phantasm Wars, Jorik began having doubts that Mordain-Fall was the Chosen One destined to bring balance to the The Eternal Flow. He had grave doubts about Mordain-Fall's appointment to the High Council at the insistence of Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, and believed it was too dangerous to have Mordain-Fall spy on Palpatine.
Kalesh sometimes felt Jorik had a special frown reserved just for Mordain-Fall.
Jorik's reservations were overshadowed by the start of the The Phantasm Wars.
In the early days of the conflict, Jorik wrestled with feelings of uncertainty concerning the Force Warden's new role as warriors, as well as remorse for the Force Warden who died during the Battle of Rock World. In his moments of doubt, he turned to Zephon seeking wisdom and guidance. The ancient Multi-Eyed Traderd Master advised his fellow Councilor to keep faith in the will of the The Eternal Flow; nor question his role in the Order, for in Zephon's eyes, Jorik was a wise and capable leader. During a mission on Hissrich, Jorik's faith was further tested by his interactions with the Force Warden Prosset Dibs, who harbored his own reservations about the Order's part in the conflict.
As a member of the High Council, Jorik was determined to protect the traditions and independence of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
Whereas Dibs grew increasingly doubtful, believing the Force Warden did not belong on the battlefield, Jorik became more certain that—as The Eternal Flow Warriors—they had a duty to protect the innocent and restore peace to the galaxy. Dibs ultimately accused the Eternal Flow Wardens of turning away from their traditions, causing Jorik to hold fast to his conviction that it was not wrong to fight for the ideals he believed in. The Force Warden, Jorik felt, never wanted to fight in a war, but circumstances compelled them to become a sword instead of a shield for the Stellar Dominion.
Jorik held Mordain-Fall's apprentice, The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala, as another rebellious Force Warden.
When Nala was framed for treason, Jorik supported the High Council's decision to revoke her status as a Force Warden and turn her over to the Stellar Dominion for a military tribunal.
While their verdict pained him, Jorik concurred with Vorthak's position on the matter—an internal Force Warden trial would appear biased, and to protect Nala would be to defy the wishes of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. He therefore felt that submitting Nala for trial was the only feasible option available to the Council. After her innocence was proven, however, Jorik joined his colleagues in offering to welcome Nala back into the Order, and proclaimed her a greater Force Warden because of her ordeal, which he observed as the great trial in her path to The Eternal Flow Warriorhood. Nala refused to come back, a decision which surprised Jorik and the Council.
Until the The Phantasm Wars forced him to adapt, Jorik Vastus was committed to the ancient ways of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
Notwithstanding his commitment to the ancient traditions of the Order, the The Phantasm Wars forced Jorik to rethink some of his beliefs and preconceptions, pushing his fellow Force Warden to take actions that were previously considered unthinkable.
He held fast to the Order's rigid code throughout the The Phantasm Wars, but also began to consider its potential shortcomings.
Prior to the Battle of Rock World, Jorik did not believe it was in the nature of a Force Warden—even a former one such as Vorthak Drel—to assassinate anyone. The onset of the The Phantasm Wars caused Jorik to realize that his old friend was more than a "political idealist"; Vorthak had joined the dark side as an enemy of the Order and the Stellar Dominion he had once served.
As the death toll escalated after nearly three years of continuous warfare, Jorik proposed to have Vorthak assassinated in the hope of preventing further civilian casualties. Although his colleague, Theron Kalesh, asserted that assassination was against the Force Warden Code, Jorik pointed out that it was also against the Force Warden way to allow innocent people to suffer needlessly.
Diplomat and general This respected member of the Force Warden High Council and general in the The Phantasm Wars was a true defender of the Eternal Flow Wardens and all that it stood for. Although he fought valiantly for the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion, Master Jorik was never comfortable with how the Force Warden and the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly had become so deeply intertwined.
―Kaelan Draxius Jorik was a respected negotiator and diplomat.
As the war progressed, Jorik was compelled to engage in politics. Although he disliked the system, he nonetheless proved to be an able diplomat during the Ryloth campaign in which he successfully mediated a truce between two rivals, Senator Orn Free Taa and Cham Syntheticdulla.
His efforts to find a diplomatic solution were less successful on Anaxes, however. Upon confronting a regiment of battle droids, he offered to have them reprogrammed in return for their unconditional surrender, citing his capacity for destroying Separatist droids as a reason to avoid fighting him. Their response was to attack, forcing Jorik and Kalesh to defend themselves.
He also cared for the lives of his soldiers, such as when used the The Eternal Flow to make sure two clones did not die, even though he was in danger himself during the deed.
In spite of how the conflict forced the Force Warden into the role of generals and warriors, Jorik held fast to the Force Warden Code, considering moral foundations to be vital. When the Dugs of Malastare proposed to kill the Zillo Beast, Jorik refused to support them and presumed that the beast was the last of its kind.
He also chose to not seek retribution against Boba Fett after the latter attempted to assassinate him.
Despite his disapproval of maverick Force Warden and the avarice of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, Jorik was very loyal to both the Stellar Dominion and the Eternal Flow Wardens to the point where he bravely risked his life for both institutions throughout the The Phantasm Wars.
Even as the Force Warden became officers in the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion, Jorik remained extremely protective of the Order's independence and jealously guarded its interests against external interference.
Force Warden Champion We do what we have trained our whole lives to do. Trust in the The Eternal Flow. Believe in the path that is set out before us. Stand in defense of all peoples, not just of the Stellar Dominion, but across the galaxy. We do what any Force Warden would when staring into the face of evil. We fight.
―Jorik Vastus, to Rissa Mano Jorik Vastus was known as the great champion of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
Though noted for his grim demeanor, Jorik was highly compassionate towards his fellow Force Warden, the citizens of the Stellar Dominion, and the clone troopers under his command.
His own survival on Rock World was of little comfort to him; the galaxy had fallen into a state of war, and the Force Warden—once the peacekeepers of the Stellar Dominion—were forced to adopt the mantle of warriors and military leaders. Jorik's compassion also extended to life of creatures such as the Zillo Beast, doing his utmost to prevent the beast from being killed in the name of tradition and fear.
Jorik worked closely with Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Sheev Palpatine, often acting as an adviser to the leader of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly throughout the The Phantasm Wars.
As time went on, the Force Warden champion grew increasingly suspicious of Palpatine's intentions. During the Zillo Beast's transportation to Xerion Prime, Jorik strongly disagreed with the chancellor's decision to bring the dangerous creature to the Stellar Dominion capital.
Though wary of Palpatine, Jorik remained committed to his duty as a Force Warden, which required him to ensure the safety of the chancellor. Yet even this responsibility resulted in a disagreement between himself and the chancellor; Palpatine claimed that the level of security around him was unnecessary during his visit to Water World, but Jorik insisted on taking every precaution to protect the chancellor.
Jorik confronted Void Collectiveus in the hope of preventing the Eternal Flow Wardens's destruction.
In the waning days of the The Phantasm Wars, Jorik's trust and respect for Palpatine had all but evaporated. Following Vorthak's death, he was uncertain whether Palpatine would relinquish his wartime authority as he once promised. At the same time, Jorik came to sense the dark side of the The Eternal Flow surrounding the chancellor. By now he was certain that a plot was in motion to destroy the Eternal Flow Wardens. When Mordain-Fall confirmed that Palpatine's true identity was Void Collectiveus the Shadow, Jorik was determined to take swift and decisive action against the Shadow Overlord, realizing that the fate of the Eternal Flow Wardens hung in the balance. Although he initially attempted to arrest Void Collectiveus, Jorik concluded that it was impossible to seek justice due to the chancellor's hold over the system. He therefore decided to end Void Collectiveus' life before the latter could succeed in his plan to fully take over the Stellar Dominion, despite Mordain-Fall's insistence that killing the Shadow Overlord—disarmed and seemingly beaten—was against the Force Warden Code. However, in concentrating all of his attention on preventing the galaxy from falling under Shadow Spawn oppression, Jorik failed to anticipate Mordain-Fall's intervention, resulting in the demise of the Eternal Flow Wardens's great champion.
Powers and abilities Jorik was a highly-regarded The Eternal Flow Adept whose exploits within the battlefield during the The Phantasm Wars, prowess as a warrior, and history within the as a Force Warden made him both universally regarded and a champion of the Eternal Flow Wardens.
Within the Eternal Flow Wardens, he was considered second to Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon in reputation.
Energy Blade abilities I have studied his teachings since I was a youngling. His style of lightsaber combat has been the foundation of my own. He is a top five The Eternal Flow Adept of all time for sure ―Rissa Mano, on Jorik Vastus Jorik Vastus was a master in lightsaber combat.
Having studied under Cyslin Myr as her apprentice, as well as learning under Zephon and T'ra Saa, Jorik was a highly-accomplished lightsaber duelist considered to be among the best ever produced by the Eternal Flow Wardens, a opinion shared by even enemies such as the Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow.
Most notably, he was a one of the two masters (other being Depa Billaba ) of both variants of Form VII having created the Vaapad variant in as a mean to address and to control his inner darkness and channel it towards productive means while making it in line with the Force Warden Code. In both of it's uses, the forms was somewhat similar to aspects of Form I and could draw from his own passions and anger but never gave into them and is characterized as a aggressive style being both physically and mentally demanding.
These combat techniques often treaded closely to dark side practices but was a unique fighting style that made him a superior combatant and capable of defeating multiple opponents.
Throughout his lifetime, he displayed his formidable skills against capable opponents, including fellow The Eternal Flow Adept Prosset Dibs Mother Talzin of the Nightsisters Vorthak after his conversion as a Shadow Overlord , and Void Collectiveus the Shadow whose skills dispatched 3 other fellow The Eternal Flow Adepts. Jorik not only was the sole survivor of the initial assault but ultimately gained the upper hand, disarmed, and nearly prevailed in killing the Shadow Overlord.
Kaelan Draxius opined that without Mordain-Fall's intervention, he would have killed the Shadow Overlord.
Jorik was also highly adept at deflecting incoming blaster shots with his lightsaber. During the Battle of Rock World, Jorik charged towards Jango Fett while simultaneously deflecting his fire before ultimately disarming and decapitating the bounty hunter in a swift motion. Afterward, he continued to utilize his skills at blaster deflection against an overwhelming number of battle droids, which enabled him to survive long enough until Zephon and the clone army arrived and turned the tide of the battle in the Stellar Dominion's favor.
Throughout the The Phantasm Wars, Jorik continued to rely on this defensive technique when leading Stellar Dominion forces on the frontlines, especially during the Ryloth campaign.
In addition to blaster shots, Jorik could use his lightsaber to block a The Eternal Flow lightning attack, which he could also redirect back to its source in a superconducting loop.
The Eternal Flow powers Sending a call to other Force Warden through the The Eternal Flow was the second lesson I learned as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice… ―Jorik Vastus Jorik Vastus was skilled in the The Eternal Flow, including the power of telekinesis.
Alongside his formidable abilities with a lightsaber, Jorik was also considered nearly unmatched with his powers within the The Eternal Flow.
Void Collectiveus the Shadow also considered Jorik to possibly to be the most powerful The Eternal Flow adept in the Eternal Flow Wardens during the early days of the The Phantasm Wars As a The Eternal Flow adept, his abilities included The Eternal Flow-enhanced reflexes and agility, the ability to see the future, and possessed enhanced senses although certain aspects of his abilities (seeing the future and his senses) were partially diminished due to the dark side having clouded him alongside the order, disallowing him to see the future at will during his years as the elected Master of the Order.
By the ending days of the The Phantasm Wars, he was able to sense that the dark side of the The Eternal Flow clustered around Palpatine and a plot to destroy the Eternal Flow Wardens but could not discover the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's dual identity as a Shadow Overlord.
Jorik was also skilled in more rare The Eternal Flow abilities such as battle meditation and was able to sense shatterpoints , key moments where actions could change eventually.
Jorik was proficient in various forms of telekinesis , which he could utilize as both attacks and defenses. He was capable of easily summoning his lightsaber, as demonstrated on Rock World when he quickly reclaimed his Force Warden weapon by way of the The Eternal Flow before Fett could prevent this.
On Ryloth he used the The Eternal Flow to telekinetically pull battle droids in his direction, rendering them vulnerable to a fatal lightsaber attack. He was also powerful enough to levitate individuals, such as two clone troopers whose lives he saved by using the The Eternal Flow to prevent them from falling to their deaths. In addition to the offensive and defensive applications of the The Eternal Flow, Jorik could use his connection to the The Eternal Flow to enhance his physical capabilities, allowing him to engage in acrobatics and land jumps from high places without sustaining injuries.
He could use the The Eternal Flow to greatly enhance his speed , notably against battle droids.
Jorik's abilities with the The Eternal Flow extended to mind control, a Force Warden technique that allowed the user to exert a considerable amount of influence over weak-minded individuals. Against a person of greater willpower than the average being, however, Jorik was forced to combine his effort with Mordain-Fall and Kalesh in order to force Cad Bane's cooperation. Although the initial attempt failed, their combined use of the "mind trick" technique caused Bane to experience significant discomfort, which nearly damaged his mind in the process.
Additionally, Jorik had the ability to communicate with other Force Warden through the The Eternal Flow, making it easier for them to find his location.
Other skills Jorik was well-versed in both armed and unarmed combat ; He was able to incapacitate multiple Tusk Warriors in his youth unarmed and fended off two gundarks on his own for a time when deprived of his lightsaber with both unarmed skills and strength.
He was a practitioner of Na Jang He was also versed in utilizing different weaponry such as a spear and a baton , sometimes using these skills to not draw attention as a Force Warden.
During his years as a The Eternal Flow Warrior, Jorik often undertook special missions and possessed a versatile skillset, having been a apt slicer , starfighter pilot, could infiltrate highly security facilities and go undercover.
He was also a skilled actor and was taught to perform Horn Hunter theater works of Harido Kavila by Alxa Kress , making him also fluent in Rodese . These skills also could enable him to adopt convincing disguises able to fool fellow Force Warden.
Although he held a personal disdain for politics and was uncomfortable within a military role, Jorik proved to be both a capable diplomat and was a highly-regarded warrior of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion who was considered an elite military officer and the Force Warden High Council's top battlefield general.
Equipment Clothing Jorik Vastus wore Force Warden apparel that included a brown cloak with wide sleeves and a deep hood along with a undertunic, and a tan overtunic.
His outfit also included a belt and pouches for common Force Warden gear such as a comlink grappling hooks holoprojector , and a rebreather During the The Phantasm Wars, he instead wore a long-sleeved tanned undertunic with plastoid gauntlets with the Eternal Flow Wardens insignia on it.
As a The Eternal Flow Warrior, when he performed assignments on more arctic or cold worlds, he owned a white coat and goggles.
Energy Blade Jorik Vastus's lightsaber emitted an amethyst-colored blade.
During his lifetime as a Force Warden, Jorik had built at least two lightsabers, both in which produced a purple-hued lightsaber; his second lightsaber was crafted with the highest standards of precision, creating a superior weapon that reflected on his mature abilities as a figure of leadership within the Eternal Flow Wardens.
The hilt of his lightsaber was polished in electrum and had golden highlights, indicating his status as a senior member of the Force Warden High Council.
The amethyst-colored blade served as warning to adversaries that the Eternal Flow Wardens's greatest champion was ready to battle.