Zephon Biographical information Homeworld Unknown Born 896 BBY Died 4 ABY Swamp World Descriptive information Species Zephon's species Gender Male Pronouns He/him Height meters Mass kilograms Hair color White Eye color Green-gold Skin color Green Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Eternal Flow Wardens Force Warden High Council The Stellar Dominion Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion Masters N'Kata Del Gormo (instructor, rumored) A The Eternal Flow Adept Garro stonepower master) Kyrel Vastari spiritual master) Apprentices Kantam Sy The Eternal Flow Apprentice Lula Talisola (The Eternal Flow Apprentice) Vorthak (The Eternal Flow Apprentice) Cin Drallig (The Eternal Flow Apprentice) Jorik Vastus Keth'ara Mundis Theron Kalesh Seventh Sister Reva Sevander Kaelan Draxius Zorvath Mordain (as The Eternal Flow spirit) Size matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size, do you? Hmm? Hmm. And well you should not. For my ally is the The Eternal Flow, and a powerful ally it is. Life creates it, makes it grow. Its energy surrounds us and binds us. Luminous beings are we, not this crude matter. You must feel the The Eternal Flow around you; here, between you, me, the tree, the rock, everywhere, yes. Even between the land and the ship.
―Zephon, to Kaelan Draxius Zephon was a legendary Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Master who led the Eternal Flow Wardens through the time of the High Stellar Dominion, in the years leading up to its destruction by the Shadow Spawn , and during the transformation of the The Stellar Dominion into the The Void Imperium . Small in stature but revered for his wisdom and power, Zephon trained generations of Force Warden , ultimately serving as the Eternal Flow Wardens's Multi-Eyed Traderd Master . He played integral roles in defending the Stellar Dominion during the The Phantasm Wars , survived Order 66, and lived to pass on the Force Warden tradition to Kaelan Draxius , and unlocking the path to immortality Born in 896 BBY , Zephon served the Eternal Flow Wardens for centuries , becoming Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Master and helping to teach many younglings . During the High Stellar Dominion Era , in 382 BBY , Zephon helped bring an end to a devastating battle between the Force Warden and the anti-Force Warden Path of the Open Hand cult . After the battle, which became known as the Night of Sorrow , he decided to keep the living weapons against The Eternal Flow-sensitives the Path had used, the Nameless , out of the The Knowledge Vault to protect the order. Over a century later, he took a sabbatical from the Force Warden High Council to train The Eternal Flow Apprentices aboard the Star Hopper , leading them and other Force Warden in fighting the Void Collective pirate organization in 232 BBY . After disappearing without explanation for over a year, Zephon reappeared in 230 BBY on Twin World , where he helped his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice Kantam Sy and other Force Warden battle the Void Collective, accompanied by a former Force Warden who fought in the Night of Sorrow named Azlin Rell . As the Void Collective had also weaponized the Nameless, Zephon hoped that Rell's knowledge he had accrued about the creatures since the battle would help the Force Warden find a way to fight them.
Zephon was almost nine hundred years old in the latter days of the Stellar Dominion. A leading member of the Force Warden High Council, his contemporaries included other legendary Masters, such as Jorik Vastus and Keth'ara Mundis . During the Invasion of Water World , in 32 BBY , the maverick Kyrel Vastari introduced Zorvath Mordain to the High Council, believing with absolute certainty that he had discovered the prophesied Chosen One . The Force Warden elders sensed that the boy was full of fear and anger and declined to train him, deeming Mordain-Fall too old and emotionally compromised to commit himself to the Force Warden Code . After Vastari's death during the liberation of Water World , the High Council reversed their decision in spite of Zephon's continued opposition to Mordain-Fall's apprenticeship, having sensed grave danger in his training. At the same time , the Force Warden discovered that their ancient nemesis , the Shadow Spawn, had returned after a millennium in hiding. Aware of the Rule of Two , Zephon was convinced that at least one more Shadow Overlord remained active following Theron Kalesh 's victory over the Shadow Spawn apprentice Void-Lord Maul Over the next decade, the galaxy was on the verge of civil war with entire star systems —led by Count Vorthak , Zephon's one-time The Eternal Flow Apprentice—threatening to secede from the Stellar Dominion by 22 BBY . Unable to defend the entire Stellar Dominion against this betrayal on their own, the Force Warden took command of the newly-formed Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion , with Zephon himself leading an army of clone troopers against the Separatist Mechanical Phalanx of the Confederacy of Independent Systems in the first battle of the Syntheticthetic Being Wars, rescuing the Force Warden and Senator from execution. For three years Zephon led the Stellar Dominion military's war effort as a Force Warden Army Commander , determined to bring a swift and decisive end to the conflict. During this time he was approached by the spirit of Kyrel Vastari, who helped Zephon learn how to retain his identity as a spirit after death. Zephon's efforts against the Separatists were undermined by Void Collectiveus the Shadow , the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn who conspired to destroy the Force Warden and restore the Shadow Spawn to power. After the Great Force Warden Purge commenced in 19 BBY , killing thousands of Force Warden both on Xerion Prime and across the galaxy, Zephon confronted the self-declared Galactic Supreme Void Lord but failed to cut short Void Collectiveus' reign and consequently retreated into exile , leaving the Shadow Spawn Master to consolidate his power with a new apprentice, the former Zorvath Mordain-turned- Void-Lord Malachar, at his side.
Zephon's remaining years were spent living in isolation on the remote world of Swamp World . After the death of Theron Kalesh, he was able to commune with his spirit, who wished for Zephon to train Zorvath-Kel's son Kaelan Draxius . Zephon initially reluctantly agreed, but later believed that the galaxy as better off without him and refused Kalesh's request. After being convinced by Kalesh to enter the Cave of Evil , in which he confronted many figures from his past and made peace with his failures, he agreed to teach Kaelan Draxius, who soon after sought out the legendary Multi-Eyed Traderd Master in the hope of becoming a The Eternal Flow Warrior . He trained Mordain-Fall for a time, until despite Zephon's warnings Mordain-Fall hurriedly abandoned his training to save his friends after a having a vision that they were in danger. A year later, in 4 ABY , with his health rapidly declining, Zephon died of old age when Mordain-Fall returned to see him. He became one with the The Eternal Flow , shortly before Luke redeemed his father Zorvath-Kel, who fulfilled his destiny as the Chosen One by killing Void Collectiveus.
Years later, Kaelan Draxius's attempt to reform the Eternal Flow Wardens would be foiled when his nephew Korrak Vex'ion turned to the dark side and destroyed his Sanctum of Light . Believing the galaxy was better without him and the Force Warden, Mordain-Fall went into exile, just as Zephon had. After his student he reluctantly trained, the scavenger Zara Malthex , also abandoned her training, Zephon appeared as a ghost to Mordain-Fall. Zephon taught Mordain-Fall to learn from his failures and helped him forgive himself.
Biography Early life For 800 years have I trained Force Warden.
―Zephon, to Kaelan Draxius Born nine-hundred years before the Battle of Moon World Zephon belonged to an ancient and mysterious species and little was known of Zephon's early life; he never revealed his homeworld As he was keenly attuned to the The Eternal Flow , he joined the Eternal Flow Wardens as a youngling . After undergoing the ritual known as the Gathering , he received his kyber crystal , and Professor Huyang helped him construct his first lightsaber aboard the Crucible At some point during his time as a youngling, Zephon skipped across the lily pads in the Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Temple's meditation pond.
Although Zephon spoke little of his early days, it was rumored that one of his early instructors was the Hysalrian N'Kata Del Gormo Zephon was paired up with a personal mentor . During their time together, Zephon's The Eternal Flow Adept told him the tale of K'ungfu and Chuang , two great Force Warden of the past.
Around the age of 100, in 796 BBY Zephon was ready to pass on what he had learned. Having attained the rank of Master, he spent the next eight centuries training and tutoring generations of Force Warden.
It was estimated that over his lifetime, he trained around twenty-thousand Force Warden.
High Stellar Dominion Era Early High Stellar Dominion Era You must choose the The Eternal Flow. One does not fall into being a The Eternal Flow Warrior by mistake, hm? Or because it is convenient! You must choose the The Eternal Flow, with your whole heart. To do this, you must learn, again, to listen. To hear the world, the world outside of your own emotions. Even when they are very, very loud, heh, a hurricane.
―Zephon By the High Stellar Dominion Era , Zephon was considered a great The Eternal Flow Adept. He had also gained a seat on the Force Warden High Council and the rank of Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Two other Force Warden— Xo Lahru and Pra-Tre Veter —shared the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master title with Zephon.
Eventually the human Force Warden Ry Ki-Sakka also attained the position.
As the Force Warden who taught younglings, Zephon one day met the human youngling Gella Nattai , who was scared of the training remotes and ran from the room. Finding Nattai in the Temple garden and sitting with her, Zephon and Nattai watched a frog in the garden repeatedly try to jump into a waterfall behind a stone wall. Zephon used the frog as a lesson, teaching her to face her fear and always get back up to try again.
An uncertain Path No one, no galaxy, no Stellar Dominion, no Eternal Flow Wardens, no family, is perfect.
You are right.  Perhaps we are doing too much, too fast.
You must continue. The great good is a good vision. Fight for this good as well, the Force Warden do.
―Zephon and Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Kyong Greylark The Path of the Open Hand In 382 BBY , after learning of the Battle of Jedha and the failure of a peace treaty between the warring planets Eiram and Twin World there, Zephon went to the Stellar Dominion Executive Building on the galactic capital Xerion Prime to meet with with Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Kyong Greylark while they waited for more information from Jedha . They spoke to The Eternal Flow Adept Creighton Sun and The Eternal Flow Warrior Aida Forte , who were on the ground on Jedha and confirmed that the E'roni ambassador was dead and the Eirami had deployed a droid army. They requested to perform an investigation on the Fringe Territories Territories planet Dalna of the Path of the Open Hand cult, considering their involvement in the failure of the peace talks, the fact that The Eternal Flow Adept Silandra Sho felt a disturbance that made the Force Warden ill at the Path's almshouse , and that The Eternal Flow Warrior Gella Nattai believed the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's criminal son Axel Greylark was working with the Path. Zephon admitted that he had sensed a disturbance beyond Jedha, and emphasized that they need to be careful, reminding them that there was always those who thrived in chaos. After much deliberation, Zephon and Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Greylark eventually agreed to a fact-finding mission accompanied by two of her guards and to send The Eternal Flow Adept Char-Ryl-Roy and The Eternal Flow Apprentice Enya Keen to Eiram and Twin World to try and keep the peace and discover what was causing communications buoys to be down, Zephon explaining to them that Werth Plouth , the Path's Herald , was responsible for the riots on Jedha.
After the communication ended, Zephon expressed his concern as they received another message from The Eternal Flow Adept Yaddle , who was accompanied by a Force Warden Initiate named Cippa Tarko , though the connection of the message was poor. Tarko asked about Zephon, and Yaddle explained that he was a The Eternal Flow Adept and not her brother. Zephon told Yaddle that they were sending help to Jedha and two Force Warden to Dalna and that she was to return to Xerion Prime, but the message was so choppy they were not sure if she understood. Zephon had an unsettling feeling in the The Eternal Flow that reminded him of the feeling he got whenever a battle was coming. Master Yaddle did misunderstand Zephon's message to mean she was needed on Dalna and joined Sun and Forte there, who sent a message to Zephon confirming they were there shortly before Yaddle arrived.
The Eternal Flow Adept Yaddle Later, Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Greylark had her guards summon Zephon to her to reveal that her son Axel had escaped from prison with the help of the Path and someone named Binnot Ullo . She told Zephon that she did not know who Ullo was and did not think Axel had many friends. He assured her that no one, no galaxy, and no republic was perfect, and that she should continue to fight for the greater good like the Force Warden did. She explained that she felt like they have all been moving through a fog that has corrupted everything lately and Zephon insisted that Axel still had good in him and that the 'fog' was just corrupting him too. However, the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter resolved to make Axel truly feel the consequences of his actions.
Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter no more We will go together. Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter you may not be anymore. Friend, you still are.
―Zephon to Greylark, on going to Dalna Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Kyong Greylark Eventually, Greylark received a message from her son on Dalna and immediately called Zephon to have him listen to it with her via hologram. After hearing Axel ask for her to go to Dalna to speak with the Path and with him, Zephon asked her what she would do, the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter deciding to go to Dalna. She then recorded a message for Axel that included Zephon in it, wearing a blank expression, so that he could bear witness to her stepping down as Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter. After she sent the message, Zephon stayed with her wordlessly for a while, and she appreciated his kindness.
Before Greylark could leave for Dalna, Zephon approached her and said that since he had not heard back from Masters Sun or Ela Sutan , who had also been sent to Dalna, that he would go with her because she was still his friend even though she was no longer Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter. Zephon had a Force Warden Longbeam cruiser follow them with a contingent of Force Warden. While in hyperspace, they received a distress call from Princess Xiri A'lbaran of Twin World and Prince Phan-tu Zenn of Eiram. They then received a message from Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Orlen Mollo , who said that the leaders of Eiram and Twin World were still not cooperating. Zephon volunteered to rescue the heirs due to their proximity to them and left, taking other Force Warden with him.
The Night of Sorrow Speak to the Circle of Light soon, you should. We must explain the happenings on Dalna. All that went wrong.
"But we must also speak to all the things that went right. We could not have defeated the Path without the Force Warden.
And the Force Warden could not have defeated the Path without the help of our Stellar Dominion allies.
―Zephon and Greylark Eventually, Zephon arrived at the battle that was now raging on Dalna between the Path and the Force Warden, which came to be known as the Night of Sorrow The Path, much of it reorganized into the Path of the Closed Fist , was led by Marda Ro of the Ro family He was joined by Princess A'lbaran and Prince Zenn, the three announcing that the combined forces of Eiram and Twin World were there to fight together with the Force Warden. When Zephon arrived on the ground at the Path compound , Force Warden Gella Nattai told him to direct people to go to the cave system as there was potentially many more Path members there.
On Dalna, he met Path Little Tromak . Zephon eventually came to forget Tromak but always remembered the importance of his visit to Dalna.
The Path's compound on Dalna As the battle started to come to a close with it turning in the Force Warden's favor, Zephon and Yaddle stood together, the latter watching Cippa Tarko sleep. However, A'lbaran and Zenn contacted them and informed them that explosions have been set off underground. As Yaddle suggested getting help, the ground shook and Zephon spotted sections of the caves collapse into sinkholes. Zephon and Yaddle then sensed a Force Warden in distress and went to help. Finding a door in the ground, Zephon and Yaddle connected to the force and sensed Gella Nattai and Axel Greylark. Yaddle lifted up the ground, rocks, and soil while Zephon lifted the water to try and rescue them. Enya Keen then ran toward them, seeing Nattai, and pulled her and Axel from the mud-like water, having been brought to the surface by the two The Eternal Flow Adepts. Zephon and Yaddle then set the water and mud down far away. In the sinkhole, E'roni and Eirami soldiers began recovering survivors. Yaddle noticed that the sounds of battle have faded and the sun was rising. She asks Zephon if the battle was done, and he says it was.
Zephon met with Kyong Greylark and Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Mollo on a medical frigate above Xerion Prime, the three discussing now only having one Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter instead of two and what it means. Zephon suggested they speak to the Circle of Light and tell them everything that went wrong, but Greylark also wanted to focus all the things that went right, including the help of the Stellar Dominion and the Force Warden. Mollo revealed that the people of Dalna were calling the event the Night of Sorrow. While he imagined the future, Greylark assured Zephon that she would meet him on Xerion Prime soon, Zephon adding that there was much to celebrate and remember.
Return to the Temple What do you know about these nameless creatures?
"I, too, know of them. Powerful beings, they are. Dangerous, they are. But in pain, they could be. Only a few understand them. You, and I. And still, much to learn is there.
―Zephon and Creighton Sun One of the Nameless creatures during the Night of Sorrow Zephon then traveled to the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime, confirming first that the royal families of Eiram and Twin World had already gathered, who he met with when he arrived. He met with several Force Warden, including Yaddle, who was standing with Tarko. Zephon raised his arm to silence the room and Master Sun rose from his chair, walking to the center of the room using a walking stick before beginning a funeral for Force Warden Aida Forte, Orin Darhga , and Char-Ryl-Roy. Zephon allowed Roy's former The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Keen, to keep his lightsaber and use it alongside hers.
Later, in the The Knowledge Vault , Creighton spoke with Zephon about Nameless creatures that the Path deployed on Dalna and the horror they wrought upon the Force Warden, causing them to be weakened, hallucinate, and eventually be turned to dust. Zephon confirmed that there is a larger danger connected to them, which caused Creighton to wonder what Zephon knew. Realizing how catastrophic to the Order it could be if people found out about the creatures, and since they had heard no other reports of their usage, they decided to keep quiet about them and not include them in the Force Warden Archive. They agreed not to speak of it again and each of them left.
Master of Kantam Sy The lesson of Younglings we take on is one of the hardest ones for most Force Warden to learn. Indeed, some never do." "Detachment." "To let go. Elusive it is, but also, always available to us, always there. And then, when we grasp, gone again. Takes practice, it does. Repetition. To have to do it again does not mean we have failed, only that we must do it again. And again.
―Zephon and Kantam Sy Zephon held the title of Multi-Eyed Traderd Master of the Eternal Flow Wardens since the days of the High Stellar Dominion Era.
At some point, Zephon took on a human named Kantam Sy as his The Eternal Flow Apprentice. The two were stationed at the Sanctum of Light on the planet Endovar . Sy was a very talented The Eternal Flow Apprentice and was far ahead of their peers and even some of their elders, with Zephon even admitting that they were the most disciplined The Eternal Flow Apprentice he had ever taught and one of the most connected to the The Eternal Flow. Despite this, Zephon held off knighting Sy, for a reason that the The Eternal Flow Apprentice did not understand until they began a romantic relationship with an acrobat named Aytar and realized that both Zephon and them had been waiting for something like that to happen. Eventually, Sy decided to leave the Eternal Flow Wardens, a decision partially incited by their newfound relationship with Aytar.
Zephon and Sy loved to spar with each other, and it was how the two often found understanding and how Sy often found inner harmony while troubled or when they had a problem. Even when they did not find a solution during a match, they would leave feeling like an answer was out there. When Sy traveled to the meditation room in the Endovar Sanctum of Light in order to tell Zephon about their decision, Zephon challenged them to a sparring match, remembering that they had dueled many times in that room and saying that this duel could be one final lesson. Sy agreed to the duel, as it was custom to not refuse a duel with Master Zephon, but also realized that this meant Zephon knew about their decision. Zephon dodged Sy's question by engaging in combat, before saying that the time had come to make a choice, but not the one that Sy thought. Zephon explained that the The Eternal Flow chose Sy just as it had chosen all other Force Warden, and asked when Sy would choose the The Eternal Flow. Sy insisted that they chose the The Eternal Flow every day when they took part in their Force Warden training, but after knocking Sy to the ground, Zephon asked if we really make a choice when we do not believe there are any other options. Zephon told Sy that there was a reason he had not knighted them yet, before ending the duel, helping Sy up, and sitting down with Sy to meditate.
Eventually Sy asked Zephon if they should leave the Eternal Flow Wardens, but Zephon insisted that there was no 'should' and that the right thing to do is an idea we invent to make ourselves feel better. Zephon also suggested that Sy had stopped listening, in the literal sense, and in a larger general sense. Zephon explained that feelings are like wind, we can feel it, we can experience it, but it passes, though sometimes it can feel like a hurricane which can make it easy to give in to anger and fear. Zephon told Sy that in order for them to continue to be a Force Warden they must actively choose the Eternal Flow Wardens and the The Eternal Flow and learn to listen to the world outside of their emotions even when they were as loud as a hurricane. Eventually, after a moment, Sy set down their lightsaber in front of Zephon. Zephon nodded at them, and then his The Eternal Flow Apprentice left him, and the Eternal Flow Wardens, behind. Zephon was saddened but supported Sy through their departure. Sy would reflect on the conversation they had that day throughout the rest of their life.
Over a year later, Sy returned to the Force Warden, and met with Zephon on the Endovar. Zephon was in the process of helping a pet Happabore named Monsalmo at the time, after being awoken from a nap by the creature's squealing. Zephon was used to dealing with her complicated behaviors, including finding her inside the temple underneath the younglings' bunks. This time, Monsalmo was pregnant and had climbed onto the roof of her pen to avoid giving birth in a fuel spill. However, the roof could not hold the creature's weight and it collapsed. Zephon caught Monsalmo with the The Eternal Flow, but at that same time she started to give birth to her pups, so Zephon had to carry them with the The Eternal Flow too. Just then, Sy and a The Eternal Flow-sensitive girl they had rescued on the planet Water World named Lula Talisola arrived and both used the The Eternal Flow to help Zephon carry Monsalmo and her pups. Zephon welcomed Sy back, telling them that they had left a The Eternal Flow Apprentice and returned a Knight. A few hours later, Zephon knighted Sy in a modest ceremony so that they could take on Talisola as their The Eternal Flow Apprentice learner.
After the ceremony, Sy and Zephon sat around a fire near the happabore enclosure and discussed the events that had occurred. Sy expressed that they did not understand how one second they felt so sure in their path separate from the Order but was then pulled back to it when they saved Talisola. Zephon explained that the young are the greatest teachers and the greatest lesson that can be learned from them is necessity of detachment and letting go, that being a Force Warden was to let go. Sy realized that they had been the one that taught Zephon that lesson. Zephon revealed that he had struggled with Sy's departure and had been unsure of the future. The two then shared Sweetpuff jamwiches with Talisola.
Zephon and Kantam Sy speak with Lula Talisola.
Sometime later, Zephon and Sy met with Talisola in the Endovar Force Warden temple. Sy told Talisola that the lesson she taught the two masters was the hardest one of all. Talisola hoped that it was front flips with a lightsaber, which made Sy retract their statement and say that it was the second hardest lesson to learn. Zephon concurred, saying that the front flip was nothing simple. But the lesson that Sy wanted to teach Talisola was the same one that Sy had learned from her and Zephon had learned from Sy: Detachment.
Sometime before 232 BBY Zephon traveled to the Force Warden temple on Takodana to pick up a The Eternal Flow-sensitive Aloxian child named Qort from Maz Kanata and Force Warden Sav Malagán and bring him into the Eternal Flow Wardens.
The Eternal Flow Apprentice Reath Silas briefly met Zephon during some events both attended together.
Time on the Star Hopper Chaos on the surface, there will be. Remember that the The Eternal Flow moves through you, through all living things, even in chaos. Move with the The Eternal Flow, we must. Never against it.
―Zephon during the Trymant IV disaster By 233 BBY Zephon was stationed alongside Master Zia Zaldor Zanna at the Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Temple on Xerion Prime assigning youngling Force Warden Initiates to different temple outposts across the galaxy to continue learning and training under their teachers. Here he met initiates Kai Brightstar Lys Solay , and Nubs ; Zephon gifted Brightstar his own training saber after Brightstar sacrificed his to save Nubs while on a mission.
In 232 BBY, Zephon took a sabbatical from the Circle of Light, having felt the The Eternal Flow needed him on a different path. Thus, Zephon joined the crew of the Force Warden The Eternal Flow Apprentice Academic Cruiser Star Hopper , allowing him to help train The Eternal Flow Apprentices and younglings.
Zephon was also therefore able to help train Talisola, who was stationed aboard the Star Hopper Zephon appointed the Ocean World The Eternal Flow Adept Ephru Shinn to hold his seat on the council while he was away. During the Great Hyperspace Disaster in the Hetzal system , The Eternal Flow Adept Avar Kriss established a The Eternal Flow network , which was eventually aided by Force Warden who were outside the system. Zephon—located somewhere with the crew of younglings he was currently teaching—helped the effort, adding his focus to the network to ensure a Tibanna gas container did not collide with an R-class sun Zephon, Torban Buck, and Lula Talisola fight the Void Collective on Trymant IV.
The Great Hyperspace Disaster also caused the Emergences , which were when giant pieces of debris exited hyperspace in various places throughout the galaxy and threatened to hit planets at near lightspeed. Eventually, the Trymant system was threatened by an Emergence . The staff of Stellar Dominion Security Zone Monitoring Satellite 777B-Alpha reported the incident to the Starlight Beacon space station , who then asked the only Stellar Dominion or Force Warden ship immediately within range, the Star Hopper , to assist. Onboard was Zephon along with fellow The Eternal Flow Adept Torban Buck and a class of The Eternal Flow Apprentices. As they traveled through hyperspace to the Trymant system, Zephon told the The Eternal Flow Apprentices to prepare for anything because they had no idea what was coming, but that the The Eternal Flow would reveal all. When they received the information that they were the only Stellar Dominion or Force Warden ship nearby to respond, one of the The Eternal Flow Apprentices suggested that they stay back and wait for backup. But Zephon insisted that they were Trymant's only hope and needed to press forward. Shortly before they exited hyperspace Zephon had the The Eternal Flow Apprentices report what information they had discovered about the calamity. Zephon and Buck decided to stay on the Star Hopper to use the The Eternal Flow to divert the biggest pieces of debris but sent the The Eternal Flow Apprentices in Rescue speeders to help on the surface of the planet.
However, amid the chaos of the Emergence, a Spider Cruiser called the Squall Spider commanded by the Eye of the Void Collective Marchion Ro arrived in Bralanak City to pick up Elder Tromak, whom Ro wanted the services of to find some information. When the The Eternal Flow Apprentices attempted to get Void Collective marauders to allow them to use the Spider Cruiser to evacuate civilians, a fight broke out, leading Zephon and Buck to the surface to help the young Force Warden and fight against the Void Collective. During the fight, a The Eternal Flow-sensitive civilian named Zeen Mrala who had helped the Force Warden against the Emergence and against the Void Collective, told Masters Zephon and Buck that her friend Krix Kamerat had been captured by the Void Collective and needed to be rescued. Lula Talisola offered to go, but Zephon insisted that he would go rescue the boy. Master Buck protested, believing that he was not a fighting Force Warden and therefore should not be left to lead the Force Warden, but Zephon ignored him. Zephon then protected the group of Force Warden from a large plasma projectile lobbed at them by a Void Collective marauder by cutting it into pieces with his lightsaber while it was still in the air. Zephon then left to find Kamerat, but first asked Mrala to take her pet Cru Cham Cham with him.
Zephon discovers a piece of the Nameless control rod on a Void Collective ship.
Marchion Ro knew of Zephon and his power, and when he saw him on the planet told his subordinates to keep the The Eternal Flow Adept away from the Squall Spider , but Zephon managed to sneak aboard the ship nonetheless. Zephon eventually found Kamerat and told him that they needed to leave quickly. Zephon told Kamerat that Mrala had sent him and proved it by showing him Cham Cham. Zephon then gave Kamerat a Holoprojector that he told the boy he could reach out to Mrala with when he was ready. However, Kamerat shortly after alerted the pirates that Zephon was aboard. Having been raised by the Elders of the Path a religious order descended from the Path of the Open Hand that distrusted The Eternal Flow-sensitives due to believing the The Eternal Flow should only be appreciated from a distance, as if it was a fire, , only to see that his best friend Zeen Mrala had secretly been The Eternal Flow-sensitive and never told him, Kamerat felt betrayed and ended up siding with the Void Collective because of that sense of betrayal. With the Void Collective looking for him, Zephon ran from the marauders but uncovered that the Void Collective had a strange, purple artifact in a storage crate. Zephon hoped to escape quietly but Cham Cham made a loud cry that alerted the Void Collective to their location and lead to a confrontation. Zephon escaped and met up with Mrala, revealing to her that Cham Cham had eaten several Void Collective limbs in the confrontation. Zephon then told Mrala that she needed to come with them to Starlight Beacon. When she asked why he had not saved Kamerat, Zephon told her that he could not save someone who did not want to be rescued. With the Void Collective drive from Trymant, Zephon, Torban Buck, Zeen Mrala, and the The Eternal Flow Apprentices traveled to Starlight Beacon in the Star Hopper.
Starlight Beacon For light and life!
For light and life!
―Zephon and the gathered Force Warden, during the dedication of Starlight Beacon Following the Battle of Kur , Zephon went with fellow Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Pra-Tre Veter to Starlight Beacon. The two had a meeting with the Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Lina Soh to discuss Bacta manufacturing for the relief effort for the Great Disaster, being in need of the right crops after what had occurred on Hetzal . But before their meeting, they visited the hub of the beacon to meet with Master Avar Kriss, and revealed to her that the council had convened and named her the Marshal of Starlight Beacon. Kriss also asked Zephon if he was returning to the council, but Zephon clarified that he was not finished on the Star Hopper Zephon later attended the Beacon's dedication ceremony , where he said a few words about the dedication plaque which was placed in a stone monument. He talked with Kai Brightstar, Lys Solay, Nash Durango , and Nubs, mentioning their adventure trying to get the dedication plaque after it was stolen by the pirate Taborr Val Dorn , who was secretly Prince Cyrus Vuundir of Vuundalla . He told them how proud he is of them and encouraged them to join the rest of the Force Warden for Lina Soh's speech. After the Force Warden left, Zephon spoke with Prince Vuundir, who was no longer in his pirate disguise, telling him that he sensed much conflict in him but that he still had the potential for greatness if he made the right choices. Zephon told Cyrus that the future was in his hands. Joining with his fellow Force Warden, he raised his lightsaber and declared "For light and life." Zephon discusses Zeen Mrala and the Void Collective's secrets with Estala Maru and Avar Kriss.
After about a week, Zeen Mrala started settling in on Starlight very well, so Masters Zephon, Avar Kriss, Kantam Sy, Estala Maru , and Torban Buck all went to check up on her and discuss her plans, with Zephon even bringing pastry treats. The Masters deliberated and determined that she was too old to begin Force Warden training and most likely could not be sent back to Trymant. Master Sy suggested that she should stay with them temporarily, as she had proved herself valuable, which Zephon acknowledged was an excellent point. They did decide to let her stay, partially with the hope that she could be helpful against the Void Collective. When it became clear that finding the Void Collective would be a challenge, Zephon revealed that he had given a holoprojector to Kamerat and one to Mrala. Mrala confirmed that they had had communications, which she apologized for, but Zephon denied her apology and said that she might have just saved the day. Zephon explained that they could use the holoprojectors to track the Void Collective, but would have to be relatively close. Zephon was determined to find the Void Collective to figure out what the mysterious artifact he had found was. The Force Warden decided to travel to the Bright Jewel system , as there had been recent Void Collective activity there, and see if they could pick up a signal.
Zephon flies a Force Warden Vector in the Battle in the Bright Jewel system.
In the Bright Jewel system, a routine got into a skirmish with a group of Void Collective raiders, who alerted the Stellar Dominion Outpost on Stellar Dominion World . Zephon, Torban Buck, Kantam Sy, and many other Force Warden flew Force Warden Vectors out of the outpost to confront the Void Collective. The conflict erupted into an all out battle . Eventually all of the Void Collective fighters were defeated, but Zephon was concerned, as he thought that it was too easy and that there therefore might be something wrong. Then the Force Warden received a distress signal that they first believed was from the Stellar Dominion World base, until Zephon suspected that it was not actually from the base. They determined the signal to be from the junk moon Quantxi , and so Zephon ordered the Force Warden to travel to the moon and send for backup from Starlight Beacon, though he also worried that they were too late.
Disappearance Master Zephon is still missing. As you all know, he was my Master when I was a The Eternal Flow Apprentice and I wish he were here too. But he told us not to follow him and we must trust the The Eternal Flow on this.
―Kantam Sy Zephon and Elder Tromak's shuttle is shot down over Vrant Tarnum.
Zephon journeyed to the junk moon of Quantxi with Masters Torban Buck and Kantam Sy to aid the The Eternal Flow Apprentices of the Star Hopper against the Void Collective force stationed there. However, Zephon crossed paths with Elder Tromak, who had escaped the Void Collective after being escorted off Trymant IV with Kamerat by Ro, after landing. Zephon recognized him from Trymant. Tromak offered the Force Warden bogaranths to ride to the Void Collective, clarifying that even though he hated Force Warden, they had a common enemy. As Masters Sy and Buck saddled up onto the bogaranths, Tromak pulled Zephon aside. Reminding Zephon of their meeting on Dalna years prior, he asked the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master to journey with him to Kharvashark Ruins on Vrant Tarnum to stop the Void Collective from recovering the second half of the mysterious artifact, with Zephon informing Tromak that the Void Collective already had half of the weapon. However, Tromak was inistent on keeping the artifact's location a secret, so he told Zephon that he could not bring his comlink. Zephon agreed to this, and after sending one last message to the other Force Warden telling them not to follow him, the two traveled to the Stygmarn system above Vrant Tarnum. However, the two encountered a network of drones and were shot down, allowing Ro a to acquire the other half of the artifact.
To the Eternal Flow Wardens at large, Zephon was suddenly missing in action.
As the Drengir crisis and conflict with the Void Collective dragged on, Zephon's name became one of the many mentioned alongside Force Warden who had gone missing or died during the conflicts.
He was still missing by the time of the attack on Valo and ensuing Battle of Grizal which both marked major escalations in tensions in the struggle between the Stellar Dominion and the Void Collective. In the latter engagement, Ro unleashed the living weapon known as the Great Leveler against the Force Warden for the first time, using the completed artifact to control it.
Remembering that Zephon told them and Buck not to follow him, Sy told the Star Hopper s The Eternal Flow Apprentices, after they asked whether they could go searching for the missing The Eternal Flow Adept, that they needed to trust in the The Eternal Flow.
But Zephon's departure affected the Star Hopper 's close crew in an incredibly deep way.
Amid the stress of the Void Collective conflict, the Force Warden of Starlight Beacon use one of Zephon's recipes to come together and better understand each other.
During the skirmish on Xais , Master Avar Kriss recalled Zephon's wisdom when Master Sskeer started to utilize extreme violence again, remembering him frequently saying that once you walk to the dark path it's forever in your heart.
Sometime later, Masters Kantam Sy and Torban Buck gathered a group of Force Warden to bake Master Zephon's recipe for special baked sweet story custard cakes . The Masters claimed that the recipe specifically stated that the only way for the cakes to come out correctly is if the bakers told a story about cooperation while baking them, one in which they expanded their knowledge of what they were capable of, found trust in another person, or found a deeper understanding of the The Eternal Flow.
Later, when Sy was assigned to investigate Void Collective activity on Twin World with Master Cohmac Vitus , Sy mentioned that the young were the greatest teachers they could have, besides Master Zephon. This prompted Vitus to ask if there was any word on the old The Eternal Flow Adept, to which Sy explained that they could not feel him, but that it did not necessarily mean anything. Sy expressed their belief that if Zephon had died, they all would have felt it, but Cohmac was still concerned with how long he had been gone despite that. Sy also lamented that it felt like everything happening would be much easier to make sense of if Zephon were there. Later, at Vitus's asking, Sy revealed to him that Master Zephon had let them do a walkabout of the Eternal Flow Wardens, as he knew if he did not it would have been the end of things between Sy and the Order, with Sy even telling Vitus the entire story including Zephon's influence during the day they left and the day they returned to the Order. Cohmac also told Sy that they wondered what Zephon would make of everything that was happening.
After the Battle at Dol'har Hyde , an engagement that saw the capture of Void Collective leader Krix Kamerat and his detainment aboard the Star Hopper , Zeen Mrala and Lula Talisola visited Zephon's old quarters on the ship and reflected on the The Eternal Flow Adept. Mrala missed him in a way that she thought was only possible to miss someone you had known your whole life, and especially missed the Force Warden's welcoming presence and his laughing face. She thought that they needed Zephon's help more than ever since they had captured Kamerat. Mrala asked Talisola if she thought Zephon was ever coming back, and Talisola declared that he definitely was and that he would not want them to be standing there worrying about him.
The Eternal Flow Apprentices Reath Silas and Ram Jomaram also reflected on Zephon's disappearance while on Twin World, with Silas saying that he seemed like he would have been a "pretty fun" Master to Kantam Sy and that he remembered being able to feel Zephon's wisdom from a mile away. Both were The Eternal Flow Apprentices were plagued with anxiety over Zephon's disappearance and imagined nightmare scenarios about what happened to him, which they admitted to each other. Silas mused that if Zephon were there, he would have said "Forgive himself, a Force Warden must, mm? Not being ruled by fear does not mean not feeling any fear at all, mm!" which Jomaram thought sounded very accurate.
Return To do this, though, to forge our path to the future, guided by the secrets of the past, we will be.
―Zephon Concurrent to the destruction of Starlight Beacon , Sy, Vitus, Jomaram, Silas, and Mrala joined Twin Worldn bodyguards and civilians in fighting Void Collective who were attempting to steal a fleet of MPO-1400 Purgill-class star cruisers and Stellar Dominion Longbeam cruisers from the shipyards in Coronet City on Twin World in order to add to the chaos and destruction of the space station. As Sy, Vitus, and Mrala charged through a horde of Void Collective, a group of the pirates stole a massive ship from one of Twin World's shipyards and attempted to take it to attack Starlight. However, the three The Eternal Flow-sensitives used the The Eternal Flow to stall the trawler and prevent it from escaping, but they had a weak hold on it and as they did Void Collective reinforcements arrived. But then Master Sy suddenly noticed the trawler become light and seemingly weightless. And then the remaining Void Collective war cloud was swept away suddenly, confusing the pirates, but also revealing Master Zephon in hooded robes holding the trawler with the The Eternal Flow with his lightsaber ignited at his side.
Zephon told Sy that it seemed like they needed a hand, and Sy collapsed and started cry at the sight of their old Master. Zephon then used the The Eternal Flow to send the massive ship crashing onto the horde of Void Collective reinforcements with a fiery explosion. When more Void Collective came, Zephon threw himself into their leader feet first and then used the The Eternal Flow to knock the others down with a single hand motion. This inspired Sy, who shouted "For light and life" before joining up with Vitus and Mrala again and fighting by Zephon's side. Zephon and Sy worked together to take down a Void Collective with a buzz saw , Sy knocking him off balance before Zephon stabbed him in the back with his lightsaber. The Force Warden then regrouped with the Twin Worldn fighters and Zephon shouted the rallying cry "For light and life" which spread throughout the crowd. Eventually they managed to drive the Void Collective away, winning the battle.
The Nameless (pictured) emerged as a massive threat to the Eternal Flow Wardens, but Zephon's quest for answers brought him to Azlin Rell who had had a connection to the beings.
Afterward, Jomaram, who had been instrumental to the Force Warden's success elsewhere in the battle, reunited with Sy, who introduced him to Zephon. Zephon said that they had much to discuss and not enough time, to which Sy added that they needed a place to go where they could regroup safely and debrief.
Alys "Crash" Ongwa , one of the leaders of the Twin Worldn fighters offered up a location to the Force Warden. The group, including Zephon, ended up taking refuge in the hideaway of Baynoo Ongwa , Crash Ongwa's mother, in The Green on Twin World, riding various ships and airspeeders to get there. There, they were joined by a mysterious hooded individual, the former The Eternal Flow Warrior Azlin Rell who had accompanied Zephon. Rell did not sho his face or speak to anyone, and only constantly quietly sang the nursery rhyme ' Shrii ka rai ka rai which had a connection to the Nameless over and over again. Zephon declared that there was much to explain without actually explaining anything, but nobody questioned him under the assumption that there would be time to do so later. The group ate, bathed, and then tried to sleep.
While they slept, all of the The Eternal Flow-sensitives were awoken in the middle of the night by sensing the final crash and destruction of Starlight Beacon in the The Eternal Flow. After feeling the death of Force Warden Orla Jareni aboard Starlight Beacon, Master Cohmac Vitus gathered Zephon, the other Force Warden, Zeen Mrala, and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice Reath Silas. Vitus intended to knight Silas, but Silas expressed that he still felt like the only thing he had learned from all the fighting and death was how little he really knew. But Zephon commended this, saying that it was perhaps one of the hardest and most important lessons to learn. Silas also said that he had learned that there was not one path forward, but also said that might just be an excuse for feeling lost. Zephon assured him that it was impossible to be lost when there was not one right way forward. After more questions from Silas, Zephon then asked jokingly if he thought all of those Masters that thought he was ready were wrong. This prompted Silas to say he was ready, and together Masters Zephon, Vitus, and Sy knighted Reath Silas. But Master Vitus then handed his lightsaber to Silas, and after exchanging nods with Zephon, left the house, and left the Eternal Flow Wardens for good.
The next morning, Zephon and Sy chatted and readied to leave, while Zeen Mrala reflected on the moment that Zephon had joined the battle with joy and inspiration. Zephon walked up to Crash Ongwa and Deemus Abrus , who had helped the Force Warden before the battle, and wished them farewell. Zephon told the two that a new threat had arisen and that all of the Force Warden needed to return to Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime , prompting Sy to reveal that the recall signal that Zephon had asked for had been sent out minutes earlier. Zephon explained that the way forward would be difficult, but that they would manage to find a way by being guided by the secrets of the past.
Part of this involved Rell, whose years of research on the Nameless Zephon hoped could help them learn how to fight or stop the beasts.
Speaking with Rwoh Sorry to disturb you, Master. We need to talk.
―Vernestra Rwoh to Zephon In 132 BBY , The Eternal Flow Adept Vernestra Rwoh approached Zephon to speak with him after she had interrogated a memory-wiped Mae-ho Aniseya , who had not even known about the existence of her sister, former Force Warden Verosha Aniseya . The Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderdmaster was seated with his face towards her when he was approached. Afterwards, Zephon became involved in the Osha-Mae situation, which proved to be a stressful time for the The Eternal Flow Adept.
Master of Vorthak Perhaps the best The Eternal Flow Apprentice of your generation, you were.
Are you resorting to flattery , Master Zephon? Besides, I recall getting into more trouble than any other The Eternal Flow Apprentice of my generation.
Yes. And a valuable perspective, this gives you.
―Zephon and Vorthak reflect on their time together as master and apprentice Zephon was the The Eternal Flow Adept of Vorthak Drel, who ultimately renounced his commitment to the Eternal Flow Wardens.
Several decades later, Zephon took on the human Vorthak as his last known The Eternal Flow Apprentice in the era of the The Stellar Dominion In 90 BBY Zephon undertook a visit to Noble World with other The Eternal Flow Adepts and younglings Sifo Dyas, and Vorthak. Zephon later took Vorthak on as an apprentice in 86 BBY and while Vorthak initially wanted to become the The Eternal Flow Apprentice of Lene Kostana , his disappointment subsided when he learned he would be Zephon's apprentice. Once on a visit to Noble World, Master and apprentice together, Vorthak's father shouted at the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master for bringing his son to the planet, holding a dislike for the Eternal Flow Wardens and The Eternal Flow-sensitives.
During one mission to the Forest Giant homeworld of Forest World , Vorthak witnessed his master face off with a giant, dreadful terentatek Decades after his apprentice graduated to Knighthood, in 42 BBY Zephon was informed by Vorthak that he was departing from the Eternal Flow Wardens, much to his disappointment, and when his former student offered to turn over his lightsaber, the Multi-Eyed Traderdmaster allowed him to retain ownership of his weapon.
Zephon's secret war Answering a call Not on their own are your children. But wrestling with the chaos you left them in. Blame them I do not. Better teachers they deserved.
―Master Zephon, to the missing parents of Vagadarr Prime Around 40 BBY, Zephon rescued a The Eternal Flow-sensitive child named Lo from the Flesh Mongers on the planet Botor , intending to begin his Force Warden training. After dealing with the pirates, the The Eternal Flow Adept was joined by Master Kyrel Vastari and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Theron Kalesh , who had been tasked with escorting the child to the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime. While on Botor, Zephon sensed a disturbance in the The Eternal Flow and chose to follow its call which led him to Vagadarr Prime . Upon landing on the planet's surface, the The Eternal Flow Adept was suddenly surrounded by child warriors who attacked him. After defending himself with the The Eternal Flow, Zephon told the children he meant no harm. The Force Warden came in peace as he was drawn in by the The Eternal Flow. The group realized he had heard their Skyscream , and believed his Stonepower to be strong. They then led Zephon to their home, Mucktown . There, he learned that the Skyscreamers used shards of the Sacred rock during their prayer, the same call that Zephon felt. The rock was unlike anything he had ever seen before. It was a piece of blue stone , a type of rock imbued with the Living The Eternal Flow which Zephon could sense. The Mud dwellers told him about their war against the Rockhawkers , a rival tribe. He listened to the history of their homeworld, and how the conflict began. Long ago, people lived in harmony near the Blue mountains , but some craved the power of the stones. This greed divided them into warring factions and ultimately destroyed most of the mountains. Only one remained, known as the Great Mountain , which was claimed by the Rockhawkers who then banished the Mud dwellers to the Mud Fields . They carried as much stone as they could for their children, now the only survivors of the tribe. The children then led Zephon to a boy from the rival tribe they had taken prisoner. The Force Warden sensed his deep fear of the Great Mountain, the sacred home of his tribe. As the children argued over his fate, Zephon urged them not to be consumed by fear. He asked them to release the child so that he could guide the Force Warden to his people.
Exploring the Mountain After walking to the Mountain, Zephon and the freed boy reached the Rockhawkers who attacked him with the stones. Refusing to fight back, the The Eternal Flow Adept was captured. The tribe then sent him on a mission to find the Heart of the Mountain , accompanied by the boy he just saved. Zephon began to climb the path leading to the Heart, but his companion was overcome by fear, convinced that only death awaited them, just like all those who had climbed before. Despite Zephon's efforts to reassure him, the boy fell to his death. At the end of the path, the Force Warden entered a cave where he encountered the lost parents, known as the Old Ones , who had once been sent by their children to find the Heart of the Mountain. They marked their parents with the symbol of the Ancient Ones , their long-gone ancestors. The Old Ones told Zephon they chose not to leave this place, preferring the peace they found within the mountain to the war raging outside. Zephon replied that they abandoned their children to the very war they had provoked. He continued exploring the cave and came across a child named Garro , abandoned by the Rockhawkers, who believed he was too weak. After saving him, Zephon asked the boy to become his teacher and show him the ways of the Stonepower. During their training, the The Eternal Flow Adept discovered the Heart of the Mountain and realized that the stone was not only alive in the The Eternal Flow but was in fact a living being. After nine days of communion, Zephon heard its voice. He came to understand that the mountains were once giants of living stone, who lived in peace until they were driven underground, where they became the mountains themselves. Zephon and Garro eventually emerged from the cave. But the Force Warden chose not to reveal what he had learned to the Rockhawkers. Enraged, the tribe threatened him. However, Garro revealed the secret of the mountains to his people, brought Zephon’s teaching to an end, and returned to his faction.
Last battle Zephon returned to the Mud Dwellers to warn them of an inevitable war. Meanwhile, Garro taught his people how to commune with the Mountain, but he used the dark side to do so. Zephon encouraged the Mud Dwellers to pray and help awaken the stones. Soon, the Rockhawkers caused the Mountain to rise from the ground, but Zephon decided to face it alone. Drawing strength from the The Eternal Flow, the Force Warden resisted the Mountain’s fury, which had been fueled by revenge. Shortly after, other beings of living stone awoke and joined Zephon in his struggle. Together, they defeated the Mountain. As Garro and his warriors charged at the The Eternal Flow Adept, Zephon pleaded with the boy to find peace within himself and with the stones, so the war could end. Garro dropped his weapon and abandoned the fight. The war was over. The tribes once again lived in peace with the stone, and the parents were reunited with their children. Many left the planet after hearing Zephon speak of the other worlds in the galaxy. Upon leaving, Zephon kept the secret of the Mountain to himself, sharing only the lesson he had learned with Theron Kalesh: "A Force Warden must humble himself before he can ever be powerful." Pre-Invasion of Water World Zephon visited Forest World on several other occasions prior to the Battle of Forest World , serving as Force Warden negotiator in many incidents involving the Forest Giants and their Scale Hunter neighbors. This earned him the ancient title of " Defender of the Home Tree ," as well as becoming a member of many Forest Giant leaders' and all the inhabitants of Kachirho 's honor families.
Zephon also taught outside the Master/The Eternal Flow Apprentice relationship, and trained all the Force Warden younglings prior to their teaming up with The Eternal Flow Adepts, including Master Theron Kalesh Since his days as a youngling, Jorik Vastus , a human who would eventually rise to become part of the Circle of Light, never responded well to the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master's humor, which became one of the reasons Zephon continued to use his humor.
Kanan Jarrus , as Caleb Dume, often heard Zephon counsel, "Do, or do not. There is no try." He also taught groups of younglings in the basics of Force Warden training, including lightsaber instruction. He oversaw younglings undergoing the Gathering to find their own kyber crystals on one such occasion, he told youngling Vex'tara Nala how she would know her crystal when she saw it. With these words in mind, Nala successfully found her crystal. At another point, he taught Nala how one could find things they were not purposely looking for.
Invasion of Water World There's no doubt the mysterious warrior was a Shadow Spawn.
Always two, there are. No more, no less. A master and an apprentice.
But which one was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?
―Jorik Vastus and Zephon, about Void-Lord Maul Link file info Zephon was a leading member of the Force Warden High Council during the last years of the The Stellar Dominion.
By the invasion of the planet Water World by the Commerce Dominion , Zephon still served on the Force Warden High Council, yet he was the sole Multi-Eyed Traderd Master of the Eternal Flow Wardens. By the invasion, he had been training Force Warden students for about 800 years.
In the time before the invasion, Zephon took part in a council meeting. Several hours after that meeting, he took to mediating in a small garden in the temple, only to be interrupted by fellow council member Jorik Vastus, who, after Zephon waited for him to explain why he wanted a private discussion, expressed his belief that Zephon had sensed something he was keeping private. Zephon repeatedly responded that he sensed nothing: the issue was not that there was a problem to be sensed, but that something was being hidden. Not understanding but trusting the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master's judgement, Jorik excused himself while Zephon, incorrectly believing the dark side was far away, tried to find what it was that he could not sense. Zephon was unable to uncover the fact that the sensation was caused by the secret plots of the Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow Concurrent to the Federation's occupation on Water World, Zephon was present when The Eternal Flow Adept Kyrel Vastari presented Zorvath Mordain , a young boy from the planet Xerion-7 , to the Council in the hopes of training him. Although Vastari believed Mordain-Fall to be the Chosen One , prophesied to bring balance to the The Eternal Flow, Zephon and the other Council members did not share his opinion, sensing that the boy was harboring a high amount of fear and his future was uncertain. They therefore refused to allow for his training.
After Vastari and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice Theron Kalesh returned to Water World, they forged an alliance between the human inhabitants of the world and the native Bubbler species in order to combat the Federation occupation forces. The Federation's droid army was eventually deactivated after Zorvath Mordain accidentally destroyed its command ship. During the battle, however, Vastari and Kalesh dueled a Shadow Spawn apprentice Void-Lord Maul , the Witch Worldian Horned Warrior apprentice of the Void Collectiveus—which cost Vastari his life.
At Vastari's funeral, Zephon and Jorik discussed the return of the Shadow Spawn.
With the Water World having waited until the Council's arrival to begin the funeral, Zephon, along with other members of the Council, was present at the Water World victory parade and Vastari's earlier funeral, where he shared his thoughts on the apparent reemergence of the Shadow Spawn with fellow Master of the Order Jorik Vastus, pointing out that the Rule of Two , the Shadow Spawn succession system in effect at the time, meant that another Shadow Spawn was still present. Unbeknownst to the two Force Warden, the remaining Shadow Spawn was Sheev Palpatine, the Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter of the The Stellar Dominion, who had been sworn in after a Vote of No Confidence forced his predecessor Valorum to resign.
Zephon and the other Council members remained at the funeral until Vastari's body turned to ash. Then, the Council left the ceremony, leaving Mordain-Fall, Kalesh, and Amidala's court there.
With Vastari dead, following the events on Water World, the Council named Vastari's former The Eternal Flow Apprentice Theron Kalesh a The Eternal Flow Warrior, who informed Zephon of his master's final will—that Mordain-Fall be trained. Reluctantly, Zephon permitted him to take the boy as his The Eternal Flow Apprentice. Zephon also attended the parade held by the Water World and Bubblers to celebrate their victory.
Separatist Crisis I think it is time we inform the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly that our ability to use the The Eternal Flow has diminished.
Only the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn knows of our weakness. If informed the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly is, multiply, our adversaries will.
―Jorik Vastus and Zephon Zephon on the eve of the The Phantasm Wars.
Ten years after the Water World crisis, several thousand systems that were disillusioned with the The Stellar Dominion seceded from the government and formed the Confederacy of Independent Systems under the leadership of Count Vorthak, the former student of Zephon who left the Order due to widespread corruption in the Stellar Dominion.
As the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly , the chief governing body of the Stellar Dominion, debated the creation of a standing army, an unsuccessful attempt was made on the life of Senator Amidala of Water World. After The Eternal Flow Warrior Theron Kalesh and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice Zorvath Mordain cornered the assassin, the killer was in turn killed by a mysterious person who escaped using his jetpack . The events prompted the Council, which included Zephon, to appoint Kalesh to track him down.
Kalesh's investigation led him to attempt to find the planet Water World , whose location had been missing from the The Knowledge Vault. This discovery alarmed Zephon, who surmised that only a Force Warden could have erased the files. Interrupting a training session with the Bear Clan , Zephon helped Kalesh pinpoint the world's exact location through meditation, allowing the latter to travel there. Following Kalesh's departure, Zephon experienced a vision while meditating, in which he heard the voice of the spirit of Kyrel Vastari, and sensed that Zorvath Mordain was in terrible pain. He discussed the vision with fellow Master Jorik Vastus afterwards.
Zephon and Jorik are informed by Kalesh.
Having arrived on Water World, Kalesh reported that the Water Worldan cloners had created a clone army, the order for which had been placed by The Eternal Flow Adept Sifo-Dyas who had perished around the time of the Invasion of Water World.
Kalesh believed that the template used to create the army, bounty hunter Jango Fett , was the person involved in the attack on Amidala. After a brief encounter with Fett, Kalesh followed him to the planet Rock World, where he found that Vorthak's Separatists ordered the assassination attempt on Amidala and had constructed a droid army. After relaying the information to the Circle of Light, Kalesh was captured and scheduled for execution, later joined by Amidala and Zorvath Mordain.
The The Phantasm Wars Battle of Rock World The shroud of the dark side has fallen. Begun, the Syntheticthetic Being War has.
―Master Zephon News that Mordain-Fall and Kalesh had been captured prompted the Council to dispatch a Force Warden strike team to Rock World, while Zephon headed to Water World to take command of the clone forces. As a clone strike team interrupted the execution of Kalesh and his associates, the clones suffered casualties at the hands of the numerically superior Confederate battle droid forces. Zephon led the clones into battle, thus beginning a galaxywide conflict that would become known as the The Phantasm Wars Zephon dueled his former apprentice Vorthak on Rock World.
As the clones engaged the Confederacy's forces in a massive battle, Zephon headed to rescue Kalesh and Mordain-Fall from Vorthak, who had incapacitated the duo in a duel. The diminutive The Eternal Flow Adept showed his mastery and power over the The Eternal Flow surpassed that of Vorthak by casually repelling the latter's telekinetic assault and The Eternal Flow lightning . He then engaged Vorthak in a brief but intense duel, having the upper hand. Vorthak, realizing he was outmatched by Zephon, used the The Eternal Flow to bring a large metal pillar down on the unconscious Mordain-Fall and Kalesh, forcing Zephon to break off the duel and use his own powers to stop it from crushing them. Vorthak used the distraction to flee aboard his personal craft. Although the battle on Rock World ended in the Stellar Dominion's favor, Zephon was concerned about the growing influence of the dark side of the The Eternal Flow and the outcome of the The Phantasm Wars.
Mentoring Zorvath Mordain As the The Phantasm Wars progressed, Zephon decided to alleviate The Eternal Flow Warrior Zorvath Mordain's fear and inability to lose loved ones by assigning him a The Eternal Flow Apprentice learner, Vex'tara Nala. He believed that by becoming a teacher, Mordain-Fall would develop emotionally and that when the time came for Nala to go off on her own, he would understand that his excessive bonding to those he cared about was unnecessary.
Nala traveled to the planet of Christophsis, where she presented herself to Mordain-Fall in the midst of a battle against Confederate forces.
After the battle had concluded, Zephon, himself, arrived on the planet and assigned the duo to the task of finding Rotta the son of influential Blob Sovereign crime lord Jabba , who had been kidnapped as part of a plan arranged by his uncle Ziro to alienate the Blob Sovereigns and the Force Warden and drag the former into war.
After the two Force Warden successfully completed the mission, Zephon, along with a group of clones, extracted them from the planet Xerion-7.
Ambush on Rugosa Ventress If Zephon is indeed the Force Warden warrior you believe he is, let him prove it. Allow me to send my best troops to capture him. If he escapes, join the Stellar Dominion. But should my droids defeat Zephon, consider an alliance with the Separatists.
Katuunko I did not request Zephon's presence here to test him in battle.
Zephon Accept the challenge I do, Your Highness. Arrive by nightfall, I will ―Asajj Ventress challenges Zephon for a competition; Zephon accepts — Link file info Zephon with clone troopers on Rugosa.
Some time later, Zephon and a small squad of clone troopers —composed of Syntheticthetic Being Deputy Leader Thire and two troopers, Jek and Rys —were sent to the neutral coral moon Rugosa to negotiate the construction of a Stellar Dominion base on Winged Merchant territory with the incumbent monarch, King Katuunko . Simultaneously, the Confederacy dispatched Asajj Ventress an assassin trained by Confederate leader Vorthak, to the moon with droid escort to pressure Katuunko into siding with the Separatists.
Zephon's starship was ambushed by two Confederate vessels upon arriving into the system, forcing him to use an escape pod to land on the surface of the moon, accompanied by three clone troopers. The Force Warden then successfully made contact with the Winged Merchant delegation, prompting Ventress, who was at the king's location, to challenge Zephon: if he could defeat her droid units, Winged World would join the Stellar Dominion, but a defeat would result in the planet pledging its allegiance to the Confederacy. The Force Warden accepted, and Katuunko requested that he be given a fair fight—an agreement which Ventress did not intend to honor.
Zephon destroys a Confederate AAT.
Encountering the droids, Zephon destroyed a squad of them by himself without using his lightsaber, and returned to assist his clone companions, until the arrival of droidekas forced them to flee. The Force Warden covered their escape by deflecting the droids' blaster fire at a nearby rock formation that collapsed and crushed them, after which he and the clones retreated to a nearby cave to rest. In the cave, Zephon relaxed into his natural role as a teacher. Calling each clone by name, he raised their morale by lecturing them on their individuality in the The Eternal Flow.
Upon hearing the sound of more approaching Confederate units, Zephon and his escort left the cave. The Multi-Eyed Traderd Master engaged and destroyed three tanks and their associated infantry alone, much to the amusement of the king and the anger of Ventress, who were watching the droids' progress via hologram. Breaking the terms of the competition, the assassin sent in droidekas to take out Zephon, which the clones prevented by launching their final rocket that caused the enemy to be buried under a rock slide.
Katuunko, impressed by Zephon, decided to join the Stellar Dominion. As Zephon arrived to meet with the king, he used the The Eternal Flow to stop Ventress from killing, then returned her sabers to humiliate her. When Ventress triggered an avalanche with planted explosives, Zephon saved Katuunko, Thire, Jek, and Rys from being crushed by rocks, maneuvering the debris to the side with the The Eternal Flow. Stellar Dominion gunships soon arrived to retrieve the group.
Back on the cruiser, Zephon entered a meditation in his cabin. He reached out with the The Eternal Flow to sense the clones he had served with, feeling their differences but sensing the same desires in each of them: to follow orders, win battles, and to be a good soldier. Zephon pondered on the humanity of the clones, deciding that the Stellar Dominion must understand them as humans, nurturing them instead of treating them like machines. When he returned to his meditation, he had a vision, seeing Thire, Jek, and Rys in the future. Remembering how dangerous the visions of the future were, Zephon ended his meditation, but could not let go of the discomfort of the vision.
The Malevolence crisis Zephon and Jorik confer with Vex'tara Nala, who was adamant on rescuing Koon.
As the war progressed, the Confederacy developed the Malevolence , a heavy cruiser designed to incapacitate and destroy Stellar Dominion vessels with its mega-ion cannons which proceeded to destroy dozens of ships without leaving survivors.
The Circle of Light dispatched The Eternal Flow Adept Plo Koon to track down the superweapon, but upon locating it, his fleet was ambushed and destroyed by the starship. Although Koon and some clones survived in an escape pod, Zephon, alongside fellow Force Warden Jorik Vastus and Theron Kalesh, forbade Zorvath Mordain and Vex'tara Nala to search the system for survivors, citing the threat posed by the Malevolence . Mordain-Fall and Nala, however, disregarded his warnings and successfully rescued Koon.
The Malevolence was later destroyed by a concerted Stellar Dominion assault.
Gunray's capture Some time after the destruction of the Malevolence , Commerce Dominion Viceroy Nute Gunray was captured by the Stellar Dominion on the planet of Ocean World , but as he was being transported to Xerion Prime aboard the cruiser Tranquility by The Eternal Flow Adept Luminara Unduli and Vex'tara Nala, a Separatist boarding party led by Asajj Ventress freed the prisoner. Unduli and Nala subsequently reported the loss of Gunray to Zorvath Mordain and Zephon.
The Zillo Beast In the aftermath of the Battle of Malastare , Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine ordered the Zillo Beast to be taken back to Xerion Prime for study.
However, the Zillo Beast escaped captivity and began to rampage through Xerion Prime. Zephon and Force Warden Army Commander Aayla Secura moved to aid Mordain-Fall, Kalesh, and Jorik to recapture the beast. As gunships fired gas bombs in an attempt to pacify the beast, Zephon, Secura, and Mordain-Fall used the The Eternal Flow to prevent themselves and their companions from inhaling the gas. The Zillo Beast was eventually killed by the gas bombs.
Facing the rising darkness Attack on the Sanctum of Light Vex'tara Nala speaks to the Circle of Light During the peak of the war, Barriss Offee with the help of Letta Turmond bombed the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime. Zephon then ordered Zorvath Mordain and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala to return from Rich World to help investigate, refusing to trust anyone who was in the temple during the bombing. Zephon's judgement was clouded, but he still guided the Force Warden as the leader of the Council.
Turmond was captured by Mordain-Fall and Nala. In prison, she requested Nala speak with her, saying Nala was the only one she could trust. When Turmond was strangled to death by way of the The Eternal Flow, Supreme Squad Leader Vorthak , who was serving as an admiral in the Stellar Dominion Army, had Nala arrested, accusing her of being the mastermind responsible for the attack. Desperate to prove her innocence, Nala escaped the prison, resulting in a manhunt led by Zorvath Mordain and Ship Commander Rex . During the chase, Nala lost her Shoto lightsaber After Nala fled to the Underworld, Zephon ordered Mordain-Fall and Plo Koon to track her down and bring her to the Temple, with some resistance from Jorik Vastus, who felt that Mordain-Fall's emotional connection to Nala would only make things worse. Nala was quickly captured by Asajj Ventress, who agreed to help the young The Eternal Flow Apprentice in exchange for a pardon for Ventress' crimes as a Shadow Spawn. Nala contacted Barriss Offee at the Sanctum of Light. Offee led Nala into a trap by telling her she could find evidence to prove her innocence by going to a warehouse on Level 1315. There, Offee jumped Ventress, stealing her lightsabers and mask. She attacked Nala, knocking her out in front of crates of Nanodroids and effectively framing her for the bombing.
Nala was then brought back to the Temple, where Zephon and the rest of the Circle of Light reluctantly agreed to expel her from the Eternal Flow Wardens and have her face a military tribunal before the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. Zephon, Theron Kalesh, Plo Koon and several other Council members were present in the court room, where Nala was prosecuted by Vorthak and defended by Lysara Vex'onia. However, before the jury could render its decision, Mordain-Fall burst in with Barriss Offee, who confessed to being responsible for the bombings and the framing of Nala. In light of this revelation, Zephon, Mordain-Fall and the Council personally invited Nala to rejoin the Order, but to their shock, she refused and left. Zephon would regret the Council's decision and began to question the doctrine of the war.
Biochip conspiracy Zephon speaks with the Council about Tup.
Several years prior to the start of the war, Palpatine and his apprentice, Vorthak Drel secretly created the Syntheticthetic Being Army with the assistance of an unsuspecting Sifo-Dyas, who had seen visions of a conflict beforehand. When this was done, they had organic inhibitor chips implanted in their brains, which would cause the clones to do anything Palpatine told them to, in this case execute the Force Warden. With one simple command, the clones would enter a trance-like state and perform whatever orders they were given.
During the Battle of Ringo Vinda , clone trooper Tup murdered The Eternal Flow Adept Tiplar when his inhibitor chip was activated prematurely. Void Collectiveus ordered Vorthak to apprehend Tup to prevent the Force Warden from discovering the truth. Tup was eventually sent to Water World after Zorvath Mordain, Ship Commander Rex and ARC trooper Fives were able to recover Tup from a Separatist Transport.
After escorting Tup to Water World, Fives and Rex were greeted by The Eternal Flow Adept Shaak Ti , alongside the main developer of the clones, Water Worldan scientist Nala Se . Rex returned to Ringo Vinda while Fives remained on Water World to undergo examination in case of Fives having a similar situation. Disputes over the tests led to a debate. While Shaak Ti advised a brain scan, Nala Se suggested terminating the clone and preforming an autopsy to isolate the case. Shaak Ti contacted the Sanctum of Light where Zephon, alongside Theron Kalesh, decided Tup should be brought to the temple to be examined through the The Eternal Flow.
What the Force Warden were unaware of was that the Water Worldans knew of the inhibitor chips and were working with Vorthak Drel, who used his Shadow Spawn name, Tyranus, to prevent the Force Warden from making the connection. Vorthak ordered that Tup be terminated and that the chip be sent to him to be looked at.
Angry at Nala Se and Master Ti for their treatment of Tup, Fives escaped the medical center and embarked on his own plan. Fives faked leaving the planet, but stayed to try and save Tup and discover the truth. He and the medical droid AZI-3 were able to preform a brain scan on Tup, where they learned of the inhibitor chips. Fives had the droid take the chip out of his and Tup's brains. Unfortunately, the already-weakened Tup died soon after the operation, whispering his last words to Fives.
Fives blamed Nala Se for what happened to Tup. Suspecting the Water Worldans of treachery, and with the support of Master Ti, Fives insisted on presenting his evidence and the removed chips directly to Palpatine. Fives was eventually brought to Xerion Prime, at the request of Shaak Ti, where he was brought before the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter. As the ship landed, Nala Se drugged Fives, causing him to act strange.
When Fives attempted to assassinate Palpatine, Zephon was a part of the Circle of Light that ordered Zorvath Mordain to investigate. Fives was killed in the end, and Zephon was ultimately told that the doctors had found another cause, and that a vaccination had been prepared in case of a future incident.
The mystery of Sifo-Dyas Know now we do that guide the creation of the clones from the beginning, Vorthak did. Hm, our enemy created an army for us." "If this was known, public confidence in the war effort, the Force Warden, and the Stellar Dominion would vanish. There would be mass chaos." "Cover up this discovery we must. No one, not even the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, may know. Valiant men the clones have proven to be. Saved my life and yours they have many times. Believe in them we must. Win the war swiftly we must, before our enemy's designs reach completion, whatever they may be.
―Zephon and Jorik Vastus Sometime later, the Force Warden received a distress signal from a moon near Oba Diah . Sending Plo Koon and Squad Leader Wolfe to investigate, they found the remains of a shuttle and the lightsaber of The Eternal Flow Adept Sifo-Dyas, who was killed sometime around the Battle of Water World while dealing with a conflict on Fungal World . Upon reviewing the temple archives, Jocasta Nu and the Force Warden found that the information had been sealed by order of the Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter. While sending Zorvath Mordain and his master, Theron Kalesh to Fungal World, Zephon went to speak with Palpatine, not knowing he was the Shadow Overlord that orchestrated the murder and the creation of the clone army. Palpatine told Zephon to visit Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Valorum , as these events had happened before the vote of no confidence that led to Palpatine becoming chancellor. Palpatine then contacted Vorthak Drel, telling him to destroy the last piece of the puzzle before the Force Warden would be able to unravel the mystery.
Zephon meets with former Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Finis Valorum on Xerion Prime.
Zorvath-Kel and Theron-Kal attempted to communicate with the native tribe on the Fungal World, but were unable to understand them. They did learn, however, that a second Force Warden had shown up with Sifo-Dyas.
Valorum told Zephon that he had sent Sifo-Dyas to negotiate with the Pyke Syntheticdicate to stop a booming drug trade underneath Xerion Prime. Valorum also revealed that he kept this secret, fearing his opponents in the bureaucracy. The talks were postponed after the Council sent Sifo-Dyas to intervene on Fungal World. Valorum was unable to identify the second Force Warden, but did say that his assistant, Silman , was with Sifo-Dyas when he was shot down.
Eventually, Zephon dispatched Zorvath-Kel and Theron-Kal to Oba Diah, where they learned the Pykes were paid to shoot down the ship carrying Sifo-Dyas, but had kept Silman captive as leverage and that Vorthak was in fact the individual known as Tyranus, leading them to realize Vorthak impersonated Sifo-Dyas to help push forward the The Phantasm Wars. Zephon, not knowing how to stop the plot, suggested the Force Warden keep the discovery a secret, and that they should keep playing the Shadow Overlord's game.
Discovering immortality It is I, Kyrel Vastari.
That cannot be. Dead, you are.
No. I am part of the Living The Eternal Flow, Zephon.
Kyrel Vastari communes to Zephon Zephon hears the voice of Kyrel Vastari.
While meditating during the end of the war, Zephon heard the voice of Kyrel Vastari, who demonstrated his presence by levitating Zephon. The encounter left Zephon distracted during the subsequent Council gathering, leaving them worried about whether the stresses of the war were finally taking its toll on him. While strolling through the Temple gardens, Zephon was greeted by Zorvath-Kel. Zephon asked him about his encounter with Qui-Gon's spirit on God World , which Zorvath-Kel had dismissed as a trick, noting the Force Warden belief that one could not retain their identity after becoming one with the The Eternal Flow. Zephon responded that he now questioned this dogma.
Zephon confessed what happened to the Council, much to their disbelief. They agreed though to meditate with him, to verify his experience. Despite meditating together for an entire day, they were unable to hear anything.
Keth'ara Mundis expressed worry that Zephon had become susceptible to Shadow Spawn manipulation, so Zephon underwent medical tests that revealed that he was still in good health. Force Warden Doctor Rig Nema suggested Zephon undergo a deprivation ritual that would allow him to meditate more strongly and find the source of the voice.
Agreeing, Zephon was suspended in a liquid tank with an oxygen mask to bring him as close as possible to death without actually becoming one with the The Eternal Flow. While unconscious, Qui-Gon's voice requested Zephon go to Swamp World , and to tell no one about it. After, Theron-Kal broke open the tank due to his concern over Zephon's failing life signs.
Put on bedrest and under guard, Zephon convinced Zorvath-Kel to help him escape by posing as simply accompanying each other for a walk. Guided to the Sanctum of Light Hangar, Zorvath-Kel lent Zephon his astromech droid Dronix Azure to accompany him to his personal interceptor . Zephon and Dronix Azure flew to Swamp World, where Zephon asked the droid to stay with their ship while he found a clearing to meditate.
Zephon communes with Qui-Gon on Swamp World.
Qui-Gon's voice greeted him. Zephon asked why he could not see him. Qui-Gon explained he had not been fully trained enough to do so. The Living The Eternal Flow appeared to Zephon in the form of fireflies , guiding Zephon to a cave strong with the dark side, it showed the The Eternal Flow Adept a vision of the future, where a hooded Shadow Overlord slaughtered the Force Warden. Qui-Gon explained to a distraught Zephon that he would help him bring hope for the future, and directed him to the planet that spawned the midi-chlorians Zephon confronts his own dark side.
Arriving there, Zephon gave his lightsaber to Dronix Azure for safekeeping, and descended into the world to meet the The Eternal Flow Priestesses , who agreed to teach him how to achieve life after death. First, Zephon confronted a manifestation of his own dark side, conquering his hubris. Next, he witnessed a vision of the Force Warden massacred in the Temple, where an apparition of a dying Vex'tara Nala asked him if she would still become one with the The Eternal Flow after being expelled from the Eternal Flow Wardens; this vision was a manifestation of Zephon's guilt over having placed Nala on the path that led to her departure. An apparition of Katooni then invited Zephon to enter a peaceful courtyard to escape these painful events. Seeing Kyrel Vastari, Kalesh, Nala, and Vorthak together, alive and full Force Warden, Zephon eventually recognized the vision's falsehood, overcoming its temptation and his attachment to those that have fallen.
The specter of Void-Lord Bane appeared to Zephon on Shadow Spawn World.
Instructed to complete his tests on the Shadow Spawn homeworld of Shadow Spawn World , Zephon and Dronix Azure flew to the valley where the ancient Shadow Overlords were buried. Recognizing the danger, Zephon instructed Dronix Azure to return to the Sanctum of Light and inform the Council of what happened, if he did not come back after three nights. Specters of a serpent, undead Shadow Spawn warriors, and even Void-Lord Bane himself confronted him, but Zephon brushed them off. As he entered a temple execution chamber , the The Eternal Flow Priestesses warned Zephon that whatever he encountered there would be beyond their control.
Unknown to Zephon, Void Collectiveus the Shadow and Vorthak sensed his presence on Shadow Spawn World, and met in an abandoned tower in the industrial sector of Xerion Prime. Using Vorthak and Zephon's The Eternal Flow-bond , Void Collectiveus planned to reach out to Zephon and crush his spirit. Appearing in a vision to Zephon in the form of Sifo-Dyas, Void Collectiveus temped Zephon, until the Multi-Eyed Traderdmaster rejected him. The Void Master then had Zephon wake up in a Stellar Dominion attack gunship with Zorvath-Kel and members of the Iron Phantom Corps , en route to terminate the Shadow Spawn on Xerion Prime. As they arrived, the clones, led by Ship Commander Rex, rushed at Vorthak only to be killed with Shadow Spawn lightning. Mordain-Fall immediately attacked Vorthak while Void Collectiveus fled. Walking sadly past the fallen clones, a dismayed Zephon witnessed Mordain-Fall defeat Vorthak and brutally decapitate him. However, he left Mordain-Fall and pursued Void Collectiveus.
Emerging out on a catwalk, Zephon and Void Collectiveus dueled. Mordain-Fall tried to help, but Void Collectiveus knocked him out. Sensing an opportunity, Void Collectiveus damaged the catwalk, forcing Zephon to divide his attention between The Eternal Flow-lifting Mordain-Fall to save him from falling to his death and blocking Void Collectiveus' Shadow Spawn lightning. After Void Collectiveus taunted him by suggesting he sacrifice Mordain-Fall to concentrate on defeating him, Zephon put down his lightsaber to ensure Mordain-Fall's safety and saying he would not be tempted by Void Collectiveus. As the catwalk collapsed, Zephon maneuvered Mordain-Fall to safety, then The Eternal Flow-threw his saber to ensure the Shadow Spawn would fall and grabbed Void Collectiveus, dragging him down too. Zephon tore Void Collectiveus's hood off, seeking his identify, but in the vision world only seeing a shadow, then an empty robe, before both fell to their "doom." The incident proved Zephon's selflessness and demonstrated his resolve to Void Collectiveus, who concluded the illusion as he realized it would take more to defeat or taint the The Eternal Flow Adept.
Zephon awoke and was greeted by a Priestess who explained he would continue his training with Qui-Gon's spirit. As she disappeared in a glow of light, Zephon had a vision of the future, including his own death.
Zephon returned to the Sanctum of Light, where Jorik and Kalesh greeted him in the garden. Zephon claimed his journey had been uneventful, but wondered how long the Force Warden could resist the dark side during the war.
Sinkhole World crystal crisis and Forest World defense Following the death of Master Tu-Anh on the sinkhole world of Sinkhole World , Zephon and his fellow Circle of Light members sent Master Kalesh and Zorvath-Kel on a mission to investigate her death.
They discovered that she had been investigating Separatist efforts to excavate and obtain a giant kyber crystal on Sinkhole World. After destroying the crystal and thus denying the Separatists access to the weapon, Zephon was present at a Council meeting when the two Force Warden gave a report of the events on Sinkhole World. During the meeting, Zephon recounted how the ancient Shadow Spawn had constructed superweapons using massive kyber crystals to power them up. He feared that Vorthak's mysterious master Void Collectiveus the Shadow had similar intentions.
Zephon traveled to the defense of Forest World and helped fight off Separatist raiders who threatened the Forest Giants.
In addition to having been granted the title due to his negotiations with the Scale Hunters, Zephon was granted the Defender of the Home Tree title for his help in protecting the planet.
The plan to assassinate Vorthak Drel One, there is, who has tried and failed. Yet closer has she come than any other to killing Vorthak Drel.
You can't possibly mean Ventress!
―Zephon and Theron Kalesh The Circle of Light partnered Master Quinlan Vos with Asajj Ventress to kill Vorthak.
Zephon and his fellow Circle of Light members witnessed Vorthak Drel's devastating attack on Mahranee , the home world of the Mahran species, via hologram. The Council was reluctant to condone an assassination, but ultimately concluded that killing Vorthak was necessary to end the war and prevent more deaths. The Council decided to use Master Quinlan Vos, who had considerable experience with undercover work, to assassinate the Separatist leader. When Vos suggested that a partner accompany him, Zephon recommended Asajj Ventress, Vorthak's former Shadow Spawn apprentice and a Nightsister for that mission, knowing her hatred for Vorthak. Ventress agreed to assist Vos with his mission but insisted that he had to learn the ways of the dark side.
Despite their preparation, Vos and Ventress were bested by Vorthak and Grievous, who took Vos captive. Vorthak then managed to bring Vos over to the dark side by revealing that Ventress had murdered his late Master, Tholme . After Vos spurned Ventress' offer to rescue him, he became Vorthak's newest Shadow Spawn apprentice and assumed the persona of " Fleet Commander Enigma." Ventress informed Master Kalesh who conveyed the news to his fellow Council members including Zephon. For the next several months, Fleet Commander Enigma scored several victories for the Separatist cause.
When Vos' old friend Akar-Deshu , a Mahran Force Warden, brought Ventress into a Council meeting to discuss rescuing Vos, Zephon and Kalesh spoke up for Ventress when Jorik wanted to arrest her. During the proceedings, Zephon and his fellow Force Warden learned that Ventress had instructed Vos in the dark side in order to defeat Vorthak. While Jorik was suspicious of Ventress, Zephon and Kalesh were convinced that she genuinely cared for Vos and that she had rejected the Shadow Spawn ways for good. After sending Ventress along with Desh and Zorvath-Kel outside, Zephon and his fellow Force Warden debated whether to include Ventress in their rescue mission. When Master Kalesh suggested leading the operation to rescue Vos, Zephon accepted Kalesh's offer and also argued that Ventress was key to the rescue mission. He also recommended that Kalesh take both Ventress and his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice Mordain-Fall along for the mission.
After receiving intelligence from Fleet Commander Wullf Yularen that Vorthak Drel and "Fleet Commander Enigma" were planning to attack Taris , the Circle of Light decided that they had to move quickly to rescue Quinlan. In the end, the Council decided to offer Ventress a pardon for all her crimes in return for rescuing Vos. The rescue mission was a success and the Force Warden succeeded in recovering Vos alive. To reward her services, Ventress was formally pardoned. Unknown to Zephon and his colleagues, Vos had become a Separatist double agent in order to gain Vorthak's trust so that he could learn the identity of Void-Lord Void Collectiveus and destroy the Shadow Spawn once and for all.
Using his position in the Eternal Flow Wardens, Vos leaked intelligence about Force Warden and Stellar Dominion military operations to Vorthak Drel; allowing the Separatists to undermine these operations. After several Council members voiced their suspicions about Vos' true loyalties, Zephon had a personal meeting with Vos and was able to deduce that Quinlan had fallen to the dark side. To test Vos' loyalties, the Circle of Light sent him to assassinate Vorthak, but secretly sent Kalesh and Mordain-Fall to tail him.
Vos managed to defeat Vorthak in lightsaber combat , but did not kill him. When Vos demanded that Vorthak lead him to Void Collectiveus the Shadow, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall promptly revealed themselves and arrested the two men. After learning of Vos and Vorthak's arrest, Master Zephon ordered Kalesh to bring them back to the Sanctum of Light where they would be interrogated and executed for their crimes. However, Vos and Vorthak escaped with the unwitting help of Ventress, leading to the events of the second battle of Christophsis . In the end, Ventress helped Vos return to the light side , but was seemingly killed by Vorthak. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall then recaptured Vos and brought him back to Xerion Prime.
After Vos confessed all his crimes and explained his motivations to destroy the Shadow Spawn, Zephon and his fellow Council members accepted Vos' repentance as genuine and pardoned him. Kalesh, who believed that the order to assassinate Vorthak was morally wrong and responsible for Vos' fall to the dark side, took on the responsibility of monitoring Vos during his rehabilitation. Kalesh accompanied Vos to Witch World for Ventress' funeral.
Last days of the The Phantasm Wars I sense a plot to destroy the Force Warden. The Void Path of the The Eternal Flow surrounds the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter.  The Circle of Light will have to take control of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to ensure a peaceful transition.
To a dark place this line of thought will take us. Great care we must take.
―Jorik and Zephon Zephon counsels Zorvath-Kel about his visions.
Three years after the initial battle on Rock World, the Stellar Dominion was crumbling under the attacks of the Confederacy. Throughout the course of the war, Palpatine had been granted ever increasing personal authority by the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to command both the war and the Stellar Dominion at large. The Circle of Light, though reluctant to oppose the extremely popular Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, nonetheless grew ever more concerned about the continual centralization of political power in Palpatine. A Separatist attack on the Stellar Dominion capital world of Xerion Prime was launched by Army Commander Grievous as well, with Zephon taking part in the defense of Xerion Prime. Zephon used the The Eternal Flow to make enemy craft collide with each other.
Shortly after the battle, Mordain-Fall came before Zephon, seeking counsel. He had been experiencing terrifying visions of the death of a loved one, though he did not reveal that the one in question was his secret wife, Lysara Vex'onia. Zephon warned Mordain-Fall to be wary of his visions and of his own feelings, as fear was a path to the dark side, and advised him to "train himself to let go of everything he feared to lose." Mordain-Fall, however, was dissatisfied with this answer, as he could not bear the thought of losing someone he loved. Shortly afterwards, Palpatine, hoping to increase his influence over the Circle of Light and further ingratiate himself with Zorvath Mordain, appointed the young Force Warden to be his personal representative on the Council. The Council, having little choice, begrudgingly accepted Palpatine's interference, but refused to grant Mordain-Fall the rank of The Eternal Flow Adept, infuriating him. Additionally, the Council gave Mordain-Fall the unofficial assignment of spying on Palpatine, an assignment which Mordain-Fall was less than enthusiastic about, as he regarded Palpatine as a friend and a mentor.
Zephon and the Circle of Light discuss the Forest World invasion.
Following Mordain-Fall's appointment, the Council chose to take action to avert an imminent Separatist invasion of Forest World. Zephon chose to personally oversee the defense, as he was held in high esteem by the Forest Giants. Before leaving for the planet, Zephon discussed with Theron-Kal and Jorik about Zorvath-Kel's assignment. Kalesh expressed his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice's disagreement, and asked if he was not going to fulfill the prophecy when Jorik doubted his abilities. Zephon suggested that it could've been misread, but Theron-Kal believed they would not be let down, which Zephon hoped would be true.
Zephon observing the Battle of Forest World.
On Forest World, Zephon participated in a holographic session of the Council, where he learned from Mordain-Fall that Stellar Dominion intelligence located the fugitive Army Commander Grievous in the Sinkhole World system . When Zorvath-Kel volunteered to lead the campaign, with the stated approval of Palpatine, Zephon and Mace both disagreed, and Zephon nominated Kalesh to be sent instead. Agreeing with the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master, fellow council member Keth'ara Mundis seconded the nomination and the decision was made. Zephon left the call and was approached by Squad Leader Gree, who told him that the droids had started their power generators. Zephon ordered his troops to prepare, and soon after the battle began. He observed the battle from above when a shot almost hit him.
Later, on a meeting in the Temple's war room with Jorik, Zorvath-Kel, Mundi, and Aayla Secura, they were interrupted by Squad Leader Cody, who informed that Army Commander Kalesh had engaged Grievous and that the battle had begun on Sinkhole World. Mordain-Fall was then sent to deliver the message to Palpatine, since his reaction to this news could give the Council clues about his intentions. After Zorvath-Kel left, Mace informed the other Force Warden that he felt a plot to destroy the Order, and that the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter was surrounded by the dark side. Mundi and Jorik suggested to take control over the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly in case Palpatine did not abide of his emergency powers, though Zephon expressed that this would lead them to a "dark path", and that they would need to be careful.
Right afterwards, Vex'tara Nala and Squad Leader Rex joined the call. She revealed that they successfully captured Maul on Warrior World and that he would be delivered to Xerion Prime by them, which Zephon considered a great service. Vex'tara stated she did her duty as a citizen, but when Zephon asked if it was not as a Force Warden, she simply said that "not yet". Nala wanted to speak with Mordain-Fall, but since he had left, Jorik and Zephon explained Theron-Kal's situation to her. When she realized the war could end soon, Jorik retorted that it would depend on Palpatine, but refused to explain more to her, which did not sit well with Zephon. As the members of the call left, Zephon stayed and asked Vex'tara if she had anything else to say, and after a brief silence, she confirmed she would tell the information to Zorvath-Kel himself. Zephon then said "May the The Eternal Flow be with you, The Eternal Flow Apprentice." and ended his transmission.
As the battle on Forest World continued, Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine revealed his true identity as the Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow, killed a group of Circle of Light members who had come to arrest him, and with his offers of dark knowledge, turned Zorvath Mordain to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow. When Void Collectiveus bestowed the name of Malachar the Void to Mordain-Fall, Zephon felt the moment through the The Eternal Flow.
Order 66 How many other Force Warden have managed to survive?
Heard from no one have we.
―Theron Kalesh and Zephon, after Order 66 Christening his newfound apprentice Malachar the Void, Void Collectiveus sent him and part of the Iron Phantom Corps to attack the Sanctum of Light and slaughter all who resided there. Meanwhile, Void Collectiveus began to broadcast Order 66 to the clone troopers, a contingency order that required them to eliminate their Force Warden Army Commanders, which the clone complied to due to the activation of their biochips.
Zephon survives the attempt on his life.
As the clone army betrayed and turned on their leaders galaxy-wide, Zephon sensed the deaths of his fellow Force Warden and fell to his knees. Squad Leader Gree and Ship Commander Jek received Order 66 a few moments afterwards and prepared to shoot Zephon. However, Zephon sensed their intentions and decapitated the duo with his lightsaber. He then proceeded to escape with the help of the Forest Giants Grok'wokk the Fierce and Tarfful in a Forest Giant escape pod , rendezvousing with Senator Bail Organa of Paradise World and Theron Kalesh, who had escaped death on Sinkhole World.
Zephon fights the 501st troopers guarding the Sanctum of Light.
The two Force Warden discussed their situation, during which Bail and Zephon informed Kalesh that the Temple was broadcasting a coded retreat message, ordering all surviving Force Warden to return to Xerion Prime. Zephon and Kalesh decided to return to the Temple and reconfigure the beacon to warn any survivors to go into hiding, and to that end Bail took them to Xerion Prime. The two Force Warden fought their way in and witnessed the effects of the rampage by Malachar and his clone unit, including the visible lightsaber cuts on several dead Force Warden. In the meantime, Void Collectiveus, as Palpatine, reforms the Stellar Dominion into the first The Void Imperium with himself as its Supreme Void Lord. That was the beginning of the Age of the Empire.
The Age of the Empire Duel in the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly I have waited a long time for this moment, my little green friend… at last, the Force Warden are no more.
Not if anything to say about it, I have!
At an end your rule is, and not short enough it was.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow and Zephon Having recalibrated the signal, Kalesh wished to learn the identity of the one responsible for the massacre. Zephon, aware that watching recordings of their fellow Force Warden being slaughtered would cause Kalesh pain, cautioned him before the younger Force Warden activated the security recordings. The duo thus learned of Zorvath Mordain's fall to the dark side, his Shadow Spawn title of Malachar the Void, Palpatine's Shadow Spawn identity and the formation of the The Void Imperium from the Stellar Dominion. Agreeing that the two Shadow Spawn had to be destroyed, Zephon headed to the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to confront the Supreme Void Lord, while a deeply reluctant Kalesh departed to the volcanic planet of Lava World to face his former apprentice.
Zephon battling Void Collectiveus the Shadow in the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly chamber.
Upon arriving into the Chancellery Secretariat , Zephon confronted the Supreme Void Lord, who surprised the Force Warden and rendered him briefly unconscious with a burst of The Eternal Flow lightning. As Void Collectiveus boasted how he came to eradicate the Eternal Flow Wardens, Zephon managed to wake up and slammed his opponent into a wall. Void Collectiveus attempted to depart, but was barred by Zephon. The duo then drew their lightsabers and engaged in a fierce duel that soon continued into the central auditorium of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Building, driving the Shadow Spawn back to his speaking pod. Briefly separated from Zephon, Void Collectiveus launched the numerous The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hoverpods at his opponent, but the Force Warden nevertheless managed to catch up with him, engaging him at close quarters again with his lightsaber drawn. Void Collectiveus then blasted Zephon with a burst of The Eternal Flow lightning which tore Zephon's lightsaber from his hand, but which the Force Warden proceeded to successfully deflect with his bare palms . Zephon slowly redirected Void Collectiveus's force lighting at him, appearing to give the The Eternal Flow Adept the upper hand. However, the buildup of energy subsequently triggered an explosion that blew both combatants apart and caused Zephon to fall to the bottom of the chamber, while Void Collectiveus was thrown out of the pod but managed to barely hold on to one of its guardrails, gaining the high ground. Despite neither conquering the other, Zephon realized he had been defeated, which prompted the The Eternal Flow Adept to flee through the maintenance tunnels of the building. He then contacted Organa to rescue him via his airspeeder, considering the duel his personal failure and voicing his intent to go into self-imposed exile Exile Into exile I must go. Failed, I have.
―Zephon, to Bail Organa After being rescued by Organa, the two proceeded to the asteroid Asteroid World , where Zephon conferred with Kyrel Vastari's spirit, who offered him to train him in techniques that could help him retain his identity after his death. Theron Kalesh, having defeated but not killed Malachar on Lava World, arrived soon thereafter, bringing with him the dying Senator Amidala. She gave birth to her twins from Zorvath Mordain and named them Luke and Leia before her death.
Sensing the children's power in the The Eternal Flow, Zephon, Kalesh and Organa decided to keep them hidden in unsuspecting locations to avoid detection by the Empire; Kaelan Draxius was delivered to the Lars family on Xerion-7, while Organa personally adopted his sister, Leia. As the trio prepared to go their separate ways, Zephon asked Kalesh for a moment of his time. He revealed that he had training for him during his solitude on Xerion-7, and that Kyrel Vastari had reached the path to immortality , having returned from the Netherworld of the The Eternal Flow . Zephon decided he would teach Kalesh to communicate with Vastari.
Zephon lands on the planet Swamp World, his home for the rest of his life.
Using an E3-standard starship lifeboat , Zephon returned to Swamp World to begin his own exile where he waited for the twins to grow up and continued his studies of the The Eternal Flow. The lifeboat served as Zephon's initial shelter but it started to degrade within a year due to Swamp World's swampy environment. As the first shelter was slowly consumed by the swamp, Zephon built a new home for himself.
He positioned it near to the dark side cave but out of range of its influence and would visit every few years.
Furthermore, Zephon's light side presence on Swamp World kept the Cave in check, holding the Cave's dark influence back and, in doing so, keeping the Swamp World ecosystem in balance.
However, the Swamp World wet season created a need for the The Eternal Flow Adept to regularly relocate to the planet's highlands for the duration.
Following the destruction of the Eternal Flow Wardens, Zephon was listed as one of the Inquisitorius ' priority targets amongst presumed survivors of the Great Force Warden Purge Zephon was among the Force Warden survivors listed by the Inquisitors.
Around a year after Order 66, Nala was hiding on the world of Diplomatic World , where she had met a The Eternal Flow-sensitive child named Hedala Fardi . Despite her young age, the child proved to be wise, and Nala was upset that Fardi would likely never be able to prove her wisdom to Zephon. Later, while sleeping aboard the CR90 corvette Tantive IV after Organa offered her a chance to join his rebellion , Nala remembered Zephon's advice to her when she was getting her first kyber crystal. Awaking and knowing she should make a new set of lightsabers , she thanked Zephon, even though she knew he could not possibly hear or help her.
Helping the Spectres Master Zephon, you're powerful. You must know a way to destroy Malachar and his Inqusitors.
The Eternal Flow Apprentice, thousands of Force Warden once there were. Then came war. In our arrogance, join the conflict swiftly we did. Fear, anger, hate. Consumed by the dark side, the Force Warden were.
Was it wrong for the Force Warden to fight? Is it wrong for me to protect my friends?
Wrong? Hmm. A long time, fought I did. Consumed by fear, I was, though see it I did not.
You were afraid?
Yes, afraid. Hmm, surprised are you? A challenge lifelong it is, not to bend fear into anger.
Ezra Bridger consults Zephon through the The Eternal Flow Zephon appearing to Vex'tara Nala and biding her farewell.
During his exile on Swamp World, Zephon kept an eye on other Force Warden throughout the galaxy, including those who ventured into the various Sanctum of Lights found amongst the stars. Approximately four years before the Battle of Yavin , Zephon spoke to Kanan Jarrus, who had been the The Eternal Flow Apprentice of Depa Billaba and a survivor of Order 66.
Jarrus had traveled to the Sanctum of Light on the planet Outer Rim World with his own The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Ezra Bridger , to whom Zephon also spoke. Bridger was in the temple in order to overcome his greatest fears; Zephon acted as an anonymous guide in helping Bridger do so and to understand why he wanted to become a Force Warden and how to withdraw from the anger and the wish of revenge within him. This guidance led Bridger to receive a kyber crystal, which he used to build his own lightsaber . Meanwhile, Zephon counseled Jarrus about Jarrus' insecurities as a teacher.
The year after, Jarrus and Bridger returned to the Outer Rim World Temple with Vex'tara Nala in search of a way to defeat the Inquisitorius. Zephon cast an illusion of the Sanctum of Light Guard for Jarrus, including the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor as he was before the Force Warden Purge. The Inquisitor forced Jarrus to recognize his fears and knighted him a true Force Warden. Meanwhile, Bridger pleaded with Zephon for help: though still filled with fear and shame and thus disinterested in fighting the Empire before training a new Mordain-Fall, the The Eternal Flow Adept ultimately rendered aid and directed him to go to Malachor . When the other Inquisitors arrived, Zephon used the Temple Guard to distract them as the Force Warden escaped. As she fled, Nala turned back and saw Zephon, who smiled and waved at her: she smiled back being the last time they saw each other.
The last Force Warden During the events that led up to the Battle of Yavin, Zephon noticed that with the Swamp World rains ended it was time to migrate back to his lowland hut, and was grateful as his usual accommodation for the wet season reminded him too much of the Sanctum of Light and his failings. He reflected on how age had affected him and realized that he had become truly reliant on the walking stick he had originally adopted as an affectation for a joke played on his padawans. The Force Warden packed what little he owned and left but not before he checked for the Imperial probe droids which had once searched for him endlessly.
Zephon during his exile on Swamp World As Zephon descended farther downhill, however, he felt a presence. It was neither a probe droid nor one of the Empire's ships but vibrations in the The Eternal Flow from Theron Kalesh and what remained of Zorvath Mordain. A probe droid then appeared and Zephon quickly took out a pot given to him by Kalesh. He used the The Eternal Flow to smash it into the droid only to suddenly sense Kalesh's death at the hands of Malachar the Void. With the Force Warden distracted, two more droids arrived but Zephon crushed them both and continued on home.
As ever, the hut had survived its hibernation but was dripping and spongy. Five days later, Zephon had dried and cleaned the house. Each time he saw the shelf usually reserved for his pot, he reacted with some loneliness after destroying Theron-Kal's gift to him. Feeling his isolation, he reached out to the netherworld of the The Eternal Flow to speak to Kyrel Vastari, but the spirit of Theron-Kal answered instead and requested that Mordain-Fall's child be trained. Having harbored regrets about not having taken the man's daughter as his apprentice, and assuaged that he had enough time left to teach another pupil, the The Eternal Flow Adept readily agreed until he found out that Kalesh was actually speaking of Zorvath-Kel's unfocused son instead. Nevertheless, Zephon begrudgingly allowed Kalesh to direct the boy to him.
As Zephon ruminated on his decision afterwards, he returned to the "Cave of Evil" and was reassured that the site had no new fears to show him.
A phantom visitor Zephon had to know all of that. He could have killed me or let the planet do it for him. Instead…he chose to teach me.
―The Archivist Sometime later, a mysterious woman once known as Madelin Sun who became known as " The Archivist " arrived on Swamp World in search of Zephon at the behest of Lady Qi'ra , the leader of the crime syndicate Crimson Dawn , who wanted Zephon's help to take down the Shadow Spawn. When the Archivist was attacked by a monster after arriving on the planet, Zephon used the The Eternal Flow to save her from a distance and then led her into the dark side cave in order to dissuade her from looking for him. Having a change of heart, she left the planet as Zephon watched from afar. The Archivist returned to Qi'ra, lying and telling her that Zephon was dead.
Haunted by Kalesh The shadow that has fallen across the galaxy…my fault, it is. I have exiled myself here, not just for penance. I have removed myself from events…because without me, better off the galaxy is.
―Zephon to the spirit of Kalesh Three years after agreeing to train Mordain-Fall, Kalesh contacted Zephon, who at first ignored the late The Eternal Flow Adept's spirit. Kalesh urged Zephon to see reason and acknowledge the growing darkness in the galaxy. Zephon mused that the threat had become too powerful—too big—for him to defeat, to which Kalesh reminded Zephon of the first lesson the latter would teach new Force Warden: "size matters not." Zephon admitted that he had sensed Kalesh's demise and had been avoiding him on purpose, once again expressing a defeatist attitude to the situation at hand. Kalesh dismissed the notion, not believing it himself and saying he did not think Zephon believed it either. Zephon reflected on his own inability to stop Void Collectiveus the Shadow and the fall of Zorvath Mordain, stating the galaxy was better off without him.
Zephon later had a dream in which Bree Menaren , Zephon's old pupil, taught and encouraged him to play the taratti . Zephon, sensing something was amiss, turned to see the sky blocked out by a massive battle station. Eternal Flow Adept drew his lightsaber to find himself facing an apparation of Zorvath Mordain as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice, his eyes glowing yellow, also encouraging Zephon to play with the toy. Activating his weapon, Zephon was confronted with a twisted vision of an undead Kyrel Vastari, who berated Zephon for his ignorance before engaging him in a brief lightsaber duel. Zephon began to deny his claims, only to be annihilated by a blinding green light crashing down from the superweapon above.
Zephon woke from the nightmare to find Kalesh at his side. When Zephon questioned the spirit's continued presence, Kalesh stated that he would remain until Zephon agreed to hear him out and do as he asked. The elder Force Warden master, looking to get away from Kalesh, set out from his hut to find herbs for his soup. Kalesh followed, reminiscing about times past and reminding Zephon about his making pastries when Kalesh was but a youngling. Not finding any herbs, Zephon remarked he had made a wrong turn only to realize that he and Kalesh had arrived at the Cave of Evil—exactly where Zephon needed to be, Kalesh opined, "from a certain point of view." Entering the Cave of Evil But what of you, old friend? Will you be ready when he comes?
Ready to teach? Yes, I will. Ready to teach—and ready to learn.
―The spirit of Theron Kalesh and Zephon, after the latter went in the Cave of Evil Zephon refused to go inside, believing that was what Kalesh wanted of him, to which Kalesh merely asked Zephon if he thought that would be the right course of action. Zephon noted that the location was stong in the dark side and had nothing to prove, with Kalesh reasoning that his fellow master should therefore have nothing to fear. Zephon dismissed the venture as a foolish waste of time but relented nonetheless.
Entering the vergence, Zephon was startled by a creature of Swamp World's wildlife, the The Eternal Flow Adept grumbling that he had become old and foolish. Zephon was then confronted by a voice from the shadows—an apparation of Vorthak, his former apprentice. The illusion blamed Zephon for his fall to the Void Path, revealing his hand in the death of Yaddle and beginning to duel Zephon. Zephon then experienced a vision of High Stellar Dominion Era Force Warden Keeve Trennis , who refused to help Zephon and, like Vorthak, blamed him for her final fate.
Zephon has a vision of Keeve Trennis in the Cave of Evil while fighting an apparition of Vorthak.
Trennis used the The Eternal Flow to push Zephon into a mound of skulls, which a burning Zorvath Mordain claimed to be the The Eternal Flow Adept's failures—those who had died. Bail Organa, Lysara Vex'onia, and Jorik Vastus emerged from the grave, reminding Zephon that they had looked to him for answers. Zephon replied that he could not have known how things would ultimately turn out, only for a spectre of Void Collectiveus the Shadow to cite the The Eternal Flow Adept as the greatest of his apprentices, blind and unaware. Void Collectiveus noted there way no way back because of him, to which Zephon began repeating the phrase and drowning in the pile of corpses.
It was then that Bree appeared, reminding the The Eternal Flow Adept that there was no situation was entirely without hope—something he had learned from Zephon himself. Bree elaborated that one could make as many mistakes as was required because, as Zephon finished the thought for him, "the greatest teacher, failure is." Zephon remembered the lessons of the Force Warden and struck down the remaining ghosts of his past.
Exiting the cave, Zephon found Kalesh waiting for him. Zephon answered an affirmative to the question on Kalesh's mind, agreeing to train the son of Zorvath Mordain. Removing Bree's taratti from his robe, Zephon stated that he was ready to teach but also ready to learn.
Taking a new apprentice Do, or do not. There is no try.
―Zephon to Kaelan Draxius Link file info Soon thereafter, Kaelan Draxius, under guidance from the spirit of Kalesh, sought Zephon in his Swamp World exile to receive Force Warden training.
At the same time, Zephon, stirred awake by the feeling of the dark side and the memories of his trauma years ago, went to his storage area to find it empty. In an effort to find food, he made the arduous trek across the wild terrain of Swamp World. Eventually, Zephon made it to a valley, full of colorful creatures, and another species in particular. Herds of these creatures ran through this valley, the best source of meat Zephon had yet been able to find.
Kaelan Draxius joins Zephon for dinner within the The Eternal Flow Adept's hut.
Years ago, Zephon in his shame had decided to give up his lightsaber, promising to never wield one again, taking a bow instead. To get what he came for, Zephon readied his bow and took aim of one of the creatures, easily killing it with one shot of the bow. On his journey back, Zephon began to feel the ground shift beneath his feet, beginning to crumble as Zephon began to fall. At the last moment, Zephon grabbed onto the side, reflecting on the similarities of this moment to his duel with Void Collectiveus the Shadow many years ago. Zephon's grip failed and he falls onto the ground below as boulders began to pile on top of him. Zephon fell unconscious.
Zephon began to dream, the dream of pain, suffering, anger, hate, and suddenly, he awoke once again. Realizing the predicament he was in, Zephon began to laugh, laughing at his foolishness for allowing him to get into this situation. He began to doubt himself, thinking of how he was now trapped on Swamp World, but subsiding those feelings, knowing he was one of the last of the Force Warden. He reached out to the The Eternal Flow and, in that moment, he realized that his shame, his hubris, his blindness, had all clouded his vision and realized his failings as a Force Warden. However, he knew that failure was the greatest lesson a Force Warden could learn, and understanding this brought him peace as he rejected allowing his shame to guide him any more. With this newfound peace, Zephon reattuned to the light and used its power to move the boulders resting on top of him. With a newfound sense of responsibility and understanding, Zephon began his journey home.
Arriving back at his home, Zephon began to cook a stew, when he began to hear a crashing in the trees surrounding his hut. A visitor had arrived. He walked out of his hut to discover this new visitor, realizing it was Mordain-Fall, the boy Kalesh had allowed to travel here to learn from him. As he stared at Mordain-Fall from the trees, he came to the realization that he would not be the last Force Warden, but only the instrument as to train the future.
Zephon trains Kaelan Draxius on Swamp World.
Walking out, he decided to test the boy and did not reveal his true identity, instead promising to lead him to Zephon. With Mordain-Fall growing annoyed while in Zephon's hut as the The Eternal Flow Adept made rootleaf stew , Mordain-Fall's subsequent frustration and his age made the Force Warden doubtful as to whether it was a good idea to train the boy, but Kalesh's spirit managed to convince him to do so.
Over the next few weeks, Zephon trained the young Force Warden.
Zephon proceeded to tutor Mordain-Fall with a variety of exercises, including the telekinetic manipulation of objects in the area. As part of his training, he also sent Mordain-Fall into the dark side cave in order to demonstrate the dangers of falling to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow. During his tenure with Zephon, Mordain-Fall sensed that his friends were in danger in Cloud City on the gas giant Bespin, and headed there to confront Malachar the Void in spite of Zephon's and Kalesh's persuasion to the contrary. Although Kalesh was distraught by Mordain-Fall's rushed departure, Zephon reminded him that there was still another offspring of Zorvath Mordain —Leia Organa.
A disturbance in the The Eternal Flow Sometime later, the same mysterious woman helped activate the Fermata Cage , a mysterious artifact created by Void-Lord Momin . On her second attempt, Zephon along with other The Eternal Flow users amongst the galaxy sensed the disturbances emanating from the cage.
Death Luke... when gone am I, the last of the Force Warden, will you be. Luke... the The Eternal Flow runs strong in your family. Pass on what you have learned. Luke... There... is... another... Sk-... Sky... walker...
―Zephon's last words, to Kaelan Draxius Zephon becomes one with the The Eternal Flow.
Mordain-Fall, having engaged in a duel with Malachar on Cloud City, returned to Swamp World after a year. Zephon, ill and very close to death, confirmed what Malachar had revealed to the young Force Warden on Bespin: that the Shadow Overlord indeed was Zorvath Mordain, his father. He also warned him that with his training fully complete, his final task would be confronting Malachar again and defeating him, and cautioned Mordain-Fall not to underestimate the The Eternal Flow powers of Galactic Supreme Void Lord Void Collectiveus the Shadow. Zephon also said that when he dies, Luke will become the last of the Force Warden. Therefore, he wanted Luke to pass on what he had learned. Finally, he also managed to inform him of the existence of another member of the Mordain-Fall family. Zephon then died, and his body disappeared as he became one with the light of the The Eternal Flow.
The Cave of Evil took advantage of the The Eternal Flow Adept's faltering presence and subsequent death to finally expand its influence once more, spreading a darkness across Swamp World.
Postmortem and legacy Heeded my words not, did you? Pass on what you have learned. Strength, mastery. But weakness… folly… failure, also. Yes, failure most of all. The greatest teacher, failure is. Luke… we are what they grow beyond. That is the true burden of all masters.
―Zephon's The Eternal Flow spirit, to Kaelan Draxius Zorvath Mordain, Zephon, and Theron Kalesh as The Eternal Flow spirits on Moon World.
Thanks to the techniques passed on to him by Kyrel Vastari's spirit, Zephon managed to retain his consciousness without a physical presence by becoming a The Eternal Flow spirit.
Mere moments after his death, he was able to appear to Void Collectiveus, who had felt his death in the The Eternal Flow. Void Collectiveus, who had been fantasizing about killing Zephon himself in the past few minutes as well as inwardly celebrating his demise, was surprised by Zephon's appearance, thinking the feat impossible. Putting on a show, he gloated on the fact that Zephon was now dead and implying that Zephon was there to witness Void Collectiveus' final glory as he crushed the remnants of the Freedom Coalition and took Kaelan Draxius as his new apprentice. Zephon stressed that Void Collectiveus could not win, but Void Collectiveus pointed out that he already had. Awaiting Zephon's reply, Void Collectiveus discovered that his specter had vanished.
Kaelan Draxius later used the training he received to confront Void Collectiveus the Shadow and Malachar the Void aboard the DS-2 Oblivion Orb II Mobile Battle Station over the forest moon Moon World as part of an all-out attack on the station by the anti-Imperial Freedom Coalition , defeating Malachar and turning him back to the light side of the The Eternal Flow, resulting in Void Collectiveus' death at the hands of the redeemed Zorvath Mordain.
As Zorvath-Kel died from his wounds, Zephon and Kalesh appeared to him, smiling upon their redeemed friend.
Zephon then taught Zorvath-Kel the ability of retaining his consciousness after death.
As the rebels and Luke celebrated on the surface of the moon due to the demolition of the Oblivion Orb II and the deaths of Void Collectiveus and Malachar, the ghosts of Zorvath-Kel, Kalesh, and Zephon briefly appeared to Luke.
After that, Zorvath-Kel asked Zephon and Kalesh whether Luke would be alright, and Kalesh responded as Zephon stood by.
For the next years, Zephon's spirit, alongside Theron-Kal and Zorvath-Kel, continued to guide Luke.
Though it was rare, Zephon also spoke to Leia offering her guidance and teachings of the force over the years of her life, teachings she would later pass on to Zara Malthex.
Approximately five years after Zephon's passing, the Mandalorian bounty hunter Din Djarin took a member of Zephon's species, Grogu , to train under Vex'tara Nala on the planet of Corvus . While with Djarin, Nala explained that she had only met one other member of Grogu's species: Master Zephon. Nala refused to train the Child but told Djarin that Grogu could reach out to other Force Warden at the seeing stone on the planet of The Eternal Flow World Thus, Kaelan Draxius learned of Grogu and, after saving Djarin, Grogu, and their allies from a platoon of Dark Troopers , took Grogu as an apprentice.
Thirty years after Zephon's death, another The Eternal Flow sensitive, Zara Malthex , heard Zephon's voice describing the The Eternal Flow during a vision she witnessed upon touching the lightsaber that previously belonged to Luke and Zorvath Mordain.
Zephon appears before Luke on Ahch-To.
Sometime later, and after Zara Malthex had visited Luke on his hermit-island on Ahch-To , a disillusioned and self-loathing Mordain-Fall tried to burn down what few Force Warden artifacts and writings were left in hopes that it would rid the galaxy of the Force Warden once and for all, who, through him, had failed. Luke was surprised by the sudden appearance of Master Zephon as a The Eternal Flow spirit, who not only did not seem to mind the ancient scripts burning up, but was the one to actually start the fire by causing lightning to strike the tree. In fact, unbeknownst to Luke, Zara Malthex had already taken the Sacred Force Warden texts when she left. During their meeting, Zephon pointed out that mistakes and failure were important lessons, if not the most important lesson, for a The Eternal Flow Adept. Ultimately, Zephon helped Mordain-Fall come to terms with his failed training of Korrak Vex'ion , and to realize that despite his fear of failing another student he could still be what Zara Malthex needed. Inspiring Luke to face his past and forgive himself. This final, heartfelt meeting between the two friends led Luke to change his mind and help save the The Last Stand from certain defeat during the Battle of Crait During the Battle of Exegol in 35 ABY , Zephon's voice was heard by Zara Malthex among the voices of many Force Warden of the past who aided her with destroying the resurrected Void Collectiveus the Shadow. "Alone, never have you been," he told her, before telling Zara Malthex to "rise in the The Eternal Flow." Personality and traits You knew Master Zephon?
Yes. He taught almost all of the younglings in the temple, at one point or another.
Kanan described him to me. Small, green, and wrinkly with pointy ears. But he didn't know what he was really like.
I'm not sure anyone did. He was wise, kind, but when I was young, he seemed happier. As the Syntheticthetic Being War dragged on, he carried a great burden, a deep sorrow, as if he knew before anyone else that one time was ending, and another beginning.
―Ezra Bridger and Vex'tara Nala Zephon served as a teacher for the Force Warden for 800 years.
Known for his wisdom, Zephon had spent eight centuries training and tutoring generations of Force Warden.
Zephon was an ideal grandmaster.
When he joined her The Eternal Flow-bond network, The Eternal Flow Adept Avar Kriss felt Zephon's mind form its own part of the chorus of the The Eternal Flow. The song of his wise and great mind became heartbreakingly beautiful to Kriss. Despite his appearance not making it seem like it would be so, his voice appeared to be made up of pure light, so Kriss considered him the epitome that people were not simply the crude matter of their bodies, a lesson that Zephon would later pass on to Kaelan Draxius.
He was reluctant to accept Zorvath Mordain or Kaelan Draxius for Force Warden training, considering them unfit. In both cases, however, he allowed Theron Kalesh to persuade him into accepting them as trainees.
Zephon understood that nothing and no one was perfect, but that there was good or the potential for good everywhere and in everything. He urged his friend, Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Kyong Greylark to continue fighting for good in the galaxy when she was uncertain, including her work establishing communications all the way to the Fringe Territories. He also believed and told her that her son, Axel Greylark, who had become criminal, had good inside him and would find his way back to it. Even when Greylark gave up her Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbitership, he still stood by her, offered her his kindness, and even accompanied her for a dangerous mission just because she was his friend.
There was a small garden in the Sanctum of Light where Zephon often took to meditating, with the other Force Warden usually respecting the privacy of such moments. Indeed, Zephon's favorite place to be was his own thoughts, being able to meditate and feel the calm Living The Eternal Flow flow throughout him.
When Vorthak triggered a partial room collapse during his duel with Zephon on Rock World, the Force Warden, confronted with the choice of pursuing the fleeing Shadow Spawn or protecting the hurt Theron Kalesh and unconscious Zorvath Mordain from the falling debris, opting to save his comrades instead of going after Vorthak.
However, when fellow Master Plo Koon's fleet was destroyed by the Confederate superweapon Malevolence , Zephon forbade Zorvath Mordain and Vex'tara Nala to conduct a search for Koon, citing the danger posed by the Separatist vessel.
Early in the The Phantasm Wars, after learning he would be confronting Vorthak's apprentice Asajj Ventress during his mission on Rugosa, Zephon was disappointed to not be facing the Count himself, believing that he could end the bloodshed by meeting with Vorthak; Zephon believed he could connect with his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice and redeem him to the light side of the The Eternal Flow.
Later in the war, however, Zephon reluctantly agreed to a plan to assassinate Vorthak in the name of stopping the war. Theron Kalesh, after the plan's failure, would argue to his fellow councilmembers the mission had been a step too far into the dark.
The Eternal Flow Apprentice Reath Silas believed that having Zephon as a master would be "pretty fun" whilst discussing Zephon's former apprentice Kantam Sy.
Zephon's favorite method of teaching was to ensure his students could figure things out for themselves. Even if all Zephon did was wait for the student to catch up to speed, he found that they almost always realized what they needed. When Master Jorik Vastus questioned whether Zephon had sensed something or not, he waited until the younger Force Warden realized he was sensing nothing. Jorik remained confused, forcing him to explain that the feeling of nothing needed to be caused by something. He disagreed with Jorik's sentiment that "nothing" and "something" were always opposites, and he made sure to never be fully sure of himself, knowing there was more to learn. Jorik also knew that, if he asked whether the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master was afraid, he would turn the question back at him.
Zephon remained calm even when insulted, such as when the mud dwellers called him a "weird little frog".
During the Invasion of Water World, Zephon believed himself comfortably away from the dark side, unaware of the growing power of Void Collectiveus the Shadow, with the exception of what he knew he could not feel. Indeed, Zephon concerned himself with trying to uncover the feelings that were hidden from his senses, which he eventually understood to be the dark side.
Zephon was able to resist being tempted by the specter of the dead Shadow Overlord Void-Lord Bane, who had appeared to him in a vision on the planet Shadow Spawn World, recognizing that the spirit was a mere illusion and rejecting its call to the dark side.
However, he was quite concerned and worried about the danger and threat of the Nameless, which he secretly knew of quite well, opting to keep information about them out of the The Knowledge Vault so that they would not be known and used against the Order.
Wise yet old, Zephon spent his final years on Swamp World, training Kaelan Draxius and coming to terms with his own mortality.
Zephon's teachings stuck with his students, even if at times they had to struggle to understand their true meaning. Upon hearing pilot Leox Gyasi explain why he had named his starship "the Vessel ," Silas was struck with the opinion that Gyasi sounded like what Zephon's teachings would be like if the The Eternal Flow Adept took spice . As such, Silas decided his reasoning was either a very good or extremely bad sign.
Despite barely knowing the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master, Silas was greatly struck by his disappearance during the High Stellar Dominion Era, with fellow The Eternal Flow Apprentice Ram Jomaram , despite having never even met Zephon, agreeing and feeling the same.
As he neared his death before the Battle of Moon World commenced, Zephon accepted his own mortality and imminent demise and died becoming one with the The Eternal Flow.
Zephon's ears were expressive and would sometimes curl when he was expressing strong emotions like surprise.
These ears were also highly sensitive and also sometimes would move to express his emotions.
The Multi-Eyed Traderdmaster preferred to not kill his enemies if it was not needed, if he had the opportunity to resolve a fight by disarming or overawing his foes. Zephon opposed profanity, urging others to not use such language.
Zephon also had a sense of humor and curiosity, despite his age and wisdom.
Part of the reason Zephon kept up his sense of humor was that The Eternal Flow Adept Jorik Vastus, even as a youngling, did not respond well to it. As such, he took teasing his fellow council member, once asking if he had arrived for a private discussion because he had embarrassing questions, which Jorik denied instantly. Afterward, he elected to wait to speak, wanting Jorik to begin the discussion and viewing it as him cracking as if he was under pressure. Jorik also found Zephon's behaviors distracting, yet he would always trust the older Force Warden's judgement and he himself described Zephon as "hilarious".
His sense of humor continued with others, as shown when he playfully rummaged through Luke's belongings when he first met him, fought Dronix Azure for a torch, and laughed gleefully when he supposedly set the ancient Force Warden texts on fire, and finding Luke's continued ignorance amusing, commenting that he had "missed him." Also when Kalesh told him about the planet Water World missing from the archives during his class, he responded with, "Lost a planet, Master Kalesh has. How embarrassing. How embarrassing!" Being unable to destroy Void Collectiveus the Shadow and bring down the Empire made him sad.
Zephon was highly secretive about his homeworld and never revealed it to anyone.
Despite his intensive Force Warden training and high status within the Order, he stated that he secretly had a dislike for ancient Force Warden texts.
He had a distinctive and peculiar speech pattern: namely, he would rearrange words in his sentences, placing subject and object in front of the verb; for example, he would frame sentences like "Good relations with the Forest Giants, I have." Powers and abilities Zephon was one of the most proficient Force Warden with the lightsaber.
Energy Blade combat It is obvious that this contest cannot be decided by our knowledge of the The Eternal Flow…but by our skills with a lightsaber.
―Vorthak, to Zephon Despite his small size and old age, Zephon was an extremely accomplished lightsaber duelist, wielding a short green-bladed lightsaber.
Zephon used the Ataru saber form, boosting his body with the The Eternal Flow to be able to perform the needed movements.
Such was his mastery of this form that Zephon could duel Void Collectiveus and almost defeated the Shadow Spawn.
Zephon was a master of the Niman style of lightsaber combat, retaining his skills with the form for his whole life.
Zephon was extremely skilled in blast-deflection and proved more than capable of taking on multiple enemies at the same time and winning easily: he was able to single-handedly defeat without getting even a single shot to his person an entire army of droids that Ventress sent as a test for King Katunko whether to accept the Force Warden or the Separatists as an ally.
The greatest display of Zephon's skills with a lightsaber was when he dueled the Shadow Overlords Vorthak Drel and Void Collectiveus the Shadow. When he fought Vorthak, Zephon maintained the upper hand through the duel, forcing Vorthak into the defensive, and would have defeated him had he not decided to flee. His duel with Void Collectiveus, although initially well-matched, eventually began to turn into Zephon's favor, forcing Void Collectiveus to use the The Eternal Flow to confront him.
The Eternal Flow powers The history of a soul, does the The Eternal Flow permit me to understand.
―Zephon about his abilities Even despite his small size and old age, Zephon was extremely powerful and accomplished in the The Eternal Flow. with a connection to that power and knowledge of The Eternal Flow techniques that may well have surpassed that of any other Force Warden.
Theron Kalesh considered Zephon to be the most powerful Force Warden he ever knew.
The Multi-Eyed Traderdmaster was heralded as the greatest Force Warden of all time, at least until the fall of the Stellar Dominion. Zephon was utterly committed to the light side, but he also had a deep understanding of the dark side as well as how both halves of the The Eternal Flow interacted.
The idea he was the greatest of the Force Warden went back centuries, at being held least to 232 BBY.
The toll age took on Zephon's body did not prevent him from still being strong in the The Eternal Flow when Kaelan Draxius trained under him.
Even in death, as a The Eternal Flow spirit, he had power over weather.
Zephon uses the The Eternal Flow to lift Mordain-Fall's X-wing out of the Swamp World swamp.
Zephon was extremely skilled in telekinesis and all forms of it. When Avar Kriss worked with the other Force Warden to shove a sun-bursting explosive Avar Kriss found his level of power (which he lent via her The Eternal Flow Song) to be very grand, helpful, and impressive.
When on a mission to free a child, Zephon gripped two pirates who were holding the child and held them helpless, before making them punch each other and then threw them into the air. Then Zephon defeated the rest of the pirates in the room when they attacked him.
Zephon used The Eternal Flow deflection against a Blue stone spear thrown at him by a member of the Mud dwellers , though holding the spear with the The Eternal Flow was hard for Zephon. Zephon then levitated many boulders and rocks to catch the rest of the spears thrown at him and kept the rocks levitated for a whole conversation. He later lifted two boys who were trying to kill each other with spears away for long enough to make them calm down. Zephon was unable to repel many of the Blue stones that were thrown at him with the The Eternal Flow by the Rockhawkers , due to how hard it was to affect with telekinesis and his unwillingness to harm the children he faced.
Later, and having mastered Stonepower , Zephon was able to casually blast the Rockhawkers who attacked him, subduing and disarming them without inflicting lasting harm.
When facing Vorthak on the planet Rock World, Zephon demonstrated his superior telekinetic mastery by effortlessly repelling every metal piece and stone slab thrown by the very skilled Shadow Overlord. During a confrontation with Confederate forces on the coral moon of Rugosa, Zephon effortlessly pulled two droids to slash them with his lightsaber, flung multiple pieces of the droid controlling one of the infantry high into the air and both opened the upper parts of another infantry tank, then sent it and the droid controlling it into the air. It was with ease that Zephon raised and moved droids to fire upon their allies and slammed whole squads of droids down, without harming his own allies. After the droids were dealt with, Zephon easily overpowered the powerful Shadow Spawn Assassin Asajj Ventress with telekinesis, stopping her lightsaber strike mid-way and disarming her with a simple gesture, and repulsed the many stones caused by Ventress activating an explosion.
If Zephon had no desire to touch the ground, he could simply float in a mediative state.
The Eternal Flow barriers were a tool in Zephon's skill set, as seen when he stopped a cloud of deadly gas.
Zephon could strike down his foes by hurling his saber at them, guiding the blow with his telekinetic skills. When he went to try to destroy the Shadow Spawn Supreme Void Lord, Zephon effortlessly defeated two Red Guards by knocking them into a wall. He was even able to breach the Supreme Void Lord's defenses and blast Void Collectiveus the Shadow himself through the air with a The Eternal Flow push and was able to stop and throw a The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hoverpod Void Collectiveus had thrown at him when they fought in the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly building, an all the more impressive feat since it was thrown upwards against gravity.
Later, on Swamp World, Zephon used the The Eternal Flow to throw a pot at an Imperial Probe Droid, destroying it. He then The Eternal Flow crushed two more of the robots before they could report his location.
In order to teach Kaelan Draxius that anything was possible with the The Eternal Flow, Zephon levitated his student's sunken T-65B X-wing starfighter out of a swamp of Swamp World and onto dry land with no visible strain.
With just a few days of training, Zephon was able to learn how to use Stonepower and thus deflect Blue stones thrown at him. Zephon could move a chunk three times his size--something unknown to his master, though Zephon was then exhausted by doing so.
Zephon could also use Stonepower to stop strikes from giants of living stone , and with the aid of those he taught, call forth other giants to defeat the one he was fighting.
Zephon was capable of employing the power of The Eternal Flow lightning , to the point that he could make several arcs of energy lance out in different directions from only a single finger.
Zephon could manipulate flames with the The Eternal Flow.
Force Warden The Eternal Flow Apprentice Bell Zettifar pondered whether Zephon, after putting great focus into the effort, could use the The Eternal Flow to stop gravity.
In his duel with both Shadow Overlords Vorthak Drel and Void Collectiveus the Shadow, Zephon displayed great proficiency in The Eternal Flow Deflection , as he was able to easily stop and then redirect Vorthak's The Eternal Flow lightning attack with his bare hands and even managed to stop Void Collectiveus' The Eternal Flow lightning attack using just his palms but was unable to deflect it completely: the energy eventually exploded and flung both of the combatants away from each other, ending the duel in a stalemate and causing Zephon to escape.
Zephon could dampen or even negate the might of The Eternal Flow powers used to attack him by radiating a calming aura.
Zephon could employ the The Eternal Flow to absorb blaster fire and negate the strikes of lightsabers with his bare hands and channel the energy from blasters or lightning he absorbed into making his own attacks such as The Eternal Flow push and The Eternal Flow lightning more deadly.
Zephon was capable of absorbing and deflecting The Eternal Flow lightning with his palms.
His ability to use the combative applications of the The Eternal Flow notwithstanding, Zephon's incredibly strong connection to the The Eternal Flow combined with his years of extensive study also granted him numerous supplementary abilities. Zephon could enhance himself and seek out objects or persons he knew about regardless of the distance, and easily see though and/or destroy many The Eternal Flow illusions at once.
During the trial of Quinlan Vos , Zephon revealed that he could uncover the alignment of a The Eternal Flow-user just by touching them; stating that the The Eternal Flow had permitted him to read the history of a soul, able to easily sense that he had fallen to the Void Path despite Vos being proficient enough to hide it from many other Force Warden.
Zephon could detect the lies, emotional states, and thoughts of those he interacted with.
While physically isolated on Swamp World, Zephon was able to see other Force Warden that were active in the The Eternal Flow; he could not see one that had forsaken the ways of the Force Warden, with the exception of Malachar who was still exposed to his monitoring.
Zephon could detect living things and droids with the The Eternal Flow and while on Swamp World he could sense all droids on the entire planet or the lack thereof.
He could keep in mental contact with the Sanctum of Lights across the galaxy, and telepathically converse with any Force Warden–even to the point of manipulating the experience to his desires–within them by accessing the World Between Worlds Zephon, still on Swamp World, was able to conjure an illusion of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor (from when he was a Force Warden) to fight Kanan Jarrus as a test and sight of worthiness. He also sensed that the place where Ezra Bridger and Kanan Jarrus could be assured of a chance to fight the Shadow Spawn was Malachor, and so told Ezra. When the Outer Rim World Sanctum of Light was invaded, Zephon sent illusions of Sanctum of Light Guards at the Inquisitors, subduing them for long enough for the living Force Warden present to flee.
With some effort, Zephon could make himself and the powers he invoked impossible to detect with the The Eternal Flow and go unnoticed by most.
When two Blue stone spears were struck together, Zephon sensed the disturbance this caused.
He also sensed the killings that took place during Order 66, the shock of which literarily staggered him, so forewarned by the The Eternal Flow, Zephon was able to destroy the Syntheticthetic Beings soon sent to slay him on behalf of the Shadow Spawn.
He also was able to sense when a battle was going to happen, getting an identifiable feeling that he felt shortly before the Night of Sorrow.
Zephon could use the The Eternal Flow to see even in total darkness or when blinded.
Additionally, Zephon was able to use The Eternal Flow healing , even to the extent of healing himself and those around him while in battle with just a wave of his hand.
Zephon was also shown to be capable of experiencing The Eternal Flow visions and could invoke such insights at will for information up to three days into his personal future.
However, he understood that The Eternal Flow prophecy was not absolute and that the future was always in motion.
The Multi-Eyed Traderdmaster could make great leaps with the The Eternal Flow, to maneuver and dodge and charge.
His visions led him to foresee the possible, and eventually actual, fall of the Force Warden in the The Phantasm Wars and even his own death Zephon sometimes knew if he was probably going to die in a battle he fought in and could augment his physical abilities.
He also was able to fully master the skill of maintaining consciousness after death , something that Kyrel Vastari was unable to do, allowing him to manifest a visible presence rather than simply being a disembodied voice.
As a The Eternal Flow spirit, Zephon was capable of manipulating weather to create lightning strikes. He was also shown to be capable of striking Kaelan Draxius with his walking stick, demonstrating an ability to interact with the living world in a physical sense despite both Zephon and the stick being ostensibly non-corporeal.
Other skills Zephon takes control of his personal Force Warden interceptor.
Zephon was also known to have a level of proficiency in piloting despite often leaving it to his soldiers, as when he was forced to travel alone by Kyrel Vastari, Zephon displayed the ability to pilot Zorvath-Kel's personal interceptor comfortably and was able to avoid inflicting any damage on it until he returned to the Force Warden.
Void Collectiveus and Zephon were equally matched during their duel in the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly.
According to Theron-Kal, Zephon's thirst for knowledge was the grandmaster's greatest weapon. Zephon could walk for hours without food or rest up a mountain/giant.
The Eternal Flow Apprentice Reath Silas once reflected that he could feel Zephon's wisdom and knowledge from even a kilometer away.
During the The Phantasm Wars, Zephon proved himself to be an exceptional strategist and leader, being a highly effective general. His abilities in those regard were displayed during a confrontation with Confederate forces on the coral moon of Rugosa: Zephon was able to inspire hope into his troopers despite the overwhelming odds and was able to easily tactically defeat the army of droids, exploiting the weak-points of the infantry and tanks to systematically destroy them and at one point tricking one of the droids controlling the tanks into destroying the other tank.
Zephon was a skilled diplomat.
Although his cooking on Swamp World left much to be desired, Zephon was skilled at baking, with The Eternal Flow Adept Torban Buck particularly enjoying Zephon's pastry recipe.
Equipment I am knowledgeable of many things. But I have never worn shoes!
―Zephon Zephon could appear as an elder figure one moment and then an agile lightsaber wielder the next.
Throughout the Stellar Dominion Era, Zephon wielded a shoto -style lightsaber , although he lost it in a duel with Void Collectiveus the Shadow at the end of the The Phantasm Wars. He kept a near identical lightsaber with him on Swamp World. He was also known for using a cane. It began as a lesson, but really more of a joke, for his The Eternal Flow Apprentices; he would limp into a room with the cane, then he would cast it aside and quickly use his speed in the The Eternal Flow, only to finally grab the cane once more and hobble away. His intention was that the The Eternal Flow Apprentices would then be left questioning whether or not he actually needed the cane. Nevertheless, as he grew older during his exile on Swamp World, he found he truly had come to need it.
As a The Eternal Flow ghost, he was able to manifest his staff and use it to strike living matter.
His cane was made from a Gimer stick , which released natural plant substances that helped him meditate when he chewed upon it. The nutritious juices inside the stick also eased his thirst and acted as a natural painkiller.