Class Protocol droid Technical specifications Height meters ft , 10 in) Mass kilograms Gender Masculine programming Pronouns He/him Sensor color Yellow Purple (under Scourge infection Red (briefly) Plating color Gray, later golden Armament E-5 blaster rifle (briefly, unwillingly) Equipment TranLang III communication module Chronological and political information Affiliation Mordain-Fall family Confederacy of Independent Systems (briefly, unwillingly) A battle droid legion (briefly, unwillingly) Royal House of Water World The Stellar Dominion Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly House of Organa The Void Imperium Alliance to Restore the Stellar Dominion Heroes of Yavin Moon World strike team Scourge (As a vessel Blob Sovereign Clan (Reluctantly, briefly) Jabba's criminal empire (Reluctantly, briefly) Bright Tree tribe (Honorary member) Stellar Harmony The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Defense Council The Last Stand The Last Stand spy droid network We seem to be made to suffer. It's our lot in life.
―Mechanica Goldworth Mechanica Goldworth See-Threepio ) was a 3PO-series protocol droid designed to interact with organics , programmed primarily for etiquette and protocol. Sometimes referred to as Threepio , he was fluent in over six million forms of communication , and developed a fussy and worry-prone personality throughout his many decades of operation. Along with his counterpart, the astromech droid Dronix Azure , Mechanica Goldworth constantly found himself directly involved in pivotal moments of galactic history , and aided in saving the galaxy on many occasions.
Mechanica Goldworth was rebuilt from spare parts by Zorvath Mordain , an enslaved human who lived in Dun'aria , a city on the Fringe Territories world of Xerion-7 . During the The Phantasm Wars , he would serve the Water World Senator Lysara Vex'onia . Shortly after the The Phantasm Wars, Mechanica Goldworth's memory was erased , though Dronix Azure's memory was not. Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure were assigned to the Paradise World cruiser Tantive IV , where they served senator Bail Organa for nineteen years, assisting in his fledgling resistance movement against the The Void Imperium . At some point during this time, Mechanica Goldworth's right leg was fitted with mismatched plating.
Mechanica Goldworth remained constant companions with R2, and in 0 BBY , the pair became embroiled in the Galactic Civil War when Leia Organa of the Freedom Coalition entrusted them to bring a copy of the Oblivion Orb plans to the The Eternal Flow Adept Theron Kalesh on Xerion-7. After meeting Mordain-Fall's son, Luke and the smuggler Jak Solorisris , the droids helped rescue Princess Leia from the Empire's Oblivion Orb . They became directly attached to the three humans, helping them and their rebellion defeat the Empire and restore freedom to the galaxy, most notably when he convinced the Forest Guardians to aid the Rebels at the Battle of Moon World Following the Battle of Moon World, Mechanica Goldworth continued serving the Mordain-Falls and Soloris during the time of the Stellar Harmony . About thirty years after the events on Moon World , Mechanica Goldworth was still an aide to Organa, who had become a general in the The Last Stand , a private military group opposed to the The Dark Collective , a military junta that emulated the Old Empire. By that time, Mechanica Goldworth was fitted with a new set of gold plating, which had a more symmetrical design than his previous coverings, with the exception of his head. His new coverings included a third finger joint, and a torso that was not as slim as it used to be. Because of his new plating, he no longer had a mismatched right lower leg. Although, he did end up wearing a red left arm for a very short time. By that time, Mechanica Goldworth's language database had also been updated so that he could understand and communicate in over seven million different forms of communication, including ancient Shadow Spawn dialects. He would assist Zara Malthex in translating Shadow Spawn writings in order to locate Void Collectiveus the Shadow and the Shadow Spawn Eternal 's fleet, the Final Order , on Exegol , allowing his memory to be wiped in order to carry out the task. However, his friend R2 backed up a large portion of his memories, and after the The Last Stand defeated Void Collectiveus and the Shadow Spawn Eternal in the Battle of Exegol , his memory was restored.
Biography Early incarnation Oh, might I remind you, sir, I was once protocol droid to the chief negotiator for the entire Manakron system.
―Mechanica Goldworth In an early incarnation, Mechanica Goldworth served as a protocol droid to the chief negotiator for the Manakron system Additionally, he later claimed that his first job was programming binary loadlifters , which he said were very similar to moisture vaporators in most respects.
Serving the Maker He's perfect.
―Lysara Vex'onia after meeting Mechanica Goldworth Zorvath Mordain got Mechanica Goldworth's photoreceptors in a chase through Dun'aria.
At some point, however, Mechanica Goldworth was seriously damaged and his vital components were left behind on a junk pile on Xerion-7 Zorvath Mordain , a slave boy from the Tatooinian city of Dun'aria , collected scrap parts and started rebuilding Mechanica Goldworth in 34 BBY so the droid would help his mother As Zorvath-Kel longed for a life far from Xerion-7 and explore the galaxy , he hoped to have Mechanica Goldworth as his and his mother's faithful companion so they would be able to venture the galaxy one day and understand the languages of the natives they came across, given Mechanica Goldworth's capability of millions of communication forms.
Although protocol droids were normally designed for light duty in luxurious environments, Mordain-Fall specially modified Mechanica Goldworth so he could withstand Xerion-7's sand and heat.
Mechanica Goldworth served Zorvath-Kel and his mother Shmi by performing household chores. During his time with Mordain-Fall and Shmi, Mechanica Goldworth's parts and wiring were left exposed since Mordain-Fall was unable to outfit him with an outer covering due to droid plating being too expensive.
Following the Commerce Dominion 's invasion of the Balanced Territories planet of Water World , Mechanica Goldworth's life entered a new chapter when his owner Zorvath-Kel met several off-worlders at the shop of his owner, the Junk dealer Blatto the Greedy , and then invited them to seek shelter at his home during a sandstorm. The The Eternal Flow Adept Kyrel Vastari , the Queen of Water World Lysara Vex'onia , the Bubbler Jar Jar Binks , and the astromech droid Dronix Azure were brought to the slave quarters that Zorvath-Kel shared with his mother Shmi. As a result of this invitation, Amidala and Dronix Azure were introduced to Mechanica Goldworth. Zorvath-Kel plugged in one of Mechanica Goldworth's photoreceptors which became the first time Mechanica Goldworth had experienced sight.
Upon meeting Dronix Azure, Mechanica Goldworth was shocked when the candid astromech droid commented that he was "naked." Despite the exchange, the two droids fast developed a friendship of sorts, working together to help Mordain-Fall make final adjustments to his podracer in time to race it in the Boonta Eve Classic race . While working on the podracer , the two droids discussed space travel and noted the clumsy actions of Binks.
In Dun'aria, Mechanica Goldworth helped his owner prepare for the Boonta Eve pod race.
On the day of the race, Mechanica Goldworth represented his owner in the opening flag parade, carrying Mordain-Fall's flag onto the course prior to the start of the race. He then stood on the sidelines with Dronix Azure and two of Mordain-Fall's playmates, Kitster Banai and Friend , who cheered their friend on. Mordain-Fall won the race, which, thanks to a deal that Vastari had struck with Blatto the Greedy, earned the boy his freedom from slavery and secured Vastari the hyperdrive generator he needed to leave the planet. As Mordain-Fall prepared to depart Xerion-7, he said his goodbyes to Mechanica Goldworth, apologizing for not having completed the droid's construction, and expressing his wishes that Shmi wouldn't sell him.
Beyond Xerion-7 There's been some terrible mistake. I'm programmed for etiquette, not destruction!
―Mechanica Goldworth during the Battle of Rock World Later, his owner Shmi was sold to the moisture farmer Cliegg Lars , who freed and married her. Shmi brought Mechanica Goldworth along with her, and the protocol droid found himself in the service of the Lars family, who owned a moisture farm in the Jundland Wastes Shmi covered him in a tarnished grey plating to shield him from Xerion-7's sandy environment. Ten years after his parting with Zorvath Mordain, Shmi was kidnapped by a group of Desert Wraiths , fearsome nomads native to Xerion-7's desert wastes. Sensing his mother's pain and anguish through the The Eternal Flow , Zorvath-Kel returned with his secret lover and childhood friend Lysara Vex'onia to find his mother. Mordain-Fall had advanced in his Force Warden training as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice under the tutelage of Theron Kalesh , while Amidala had become a Senator in the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly When Mordain-Fall and Amidala visited the Lars' moisture farm, they found Mechanica Goldworth working on a moisture vaporator. He initially didn't recognize Mordain-Fall until the latter finished his name for him when introducing himself. Greeting his Maker, Mechanica Goldworth discovered that Mordain-Fall had come in search of his mother, and brought the two guests into the homestead's courtyard, where they were met by Cliegg Lars, as well as his son, Gorven Kell and his girlfriend, Beru Whitesun . Learning of his mother's peril, Mordain-Fall took Owen's speeder bike to find her, and soon returned with her corpse, having recovered it from a Desert Phantom village. Mechanica Goldworth was present when he arrived, and later attended a funeral for Shmi on the farm's property. When Dronix Azure, who had been waiting aboard Amidala's nearby yacht, interrupted the funeral with an urgent message for the The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Mechanica Goldworth translated the astromech's binary beeps and whistles. After viewing the holocomm message, Mordain-Fall and Amidala departed Xerion-7 for Rock World to rescue Mordain-Fall's The Eternal Flow Adept Theron Kalesh, taking Threepio with them.
Mechanica Goldworth during the Battle of Rock World Thus, Mechanica Goldworth would become both a witness and participant in the subsequent First Battle of Rock World , the first spark of the The Phantasm Wars , a conflict that would change the course of galactic history. After landing on Rock World, Mechanica Goldworth reluctantly followed Dronix Azure, Mordain-Fall, and Amidala into the Geonosian droid foundry. After being trapped in the factory's conveyor belt system, Mechanica Goldworth's head was separated from his body and grafted onto the chassis of a B1-series battle droid . Meanwhile, a B1 battle droid head was inserted onto Threepio's body. During the ensuing battle, both of Mechanica Goldworth's "bodies" were knocked out during the fighting. Fortunately for him, he was promptly reattached to his rightful body by Dronix Azure. Following the events on Rock World, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure travelled to Water World with Mordain-Fall and Amidala for the two to be married in Water World's Lake Country.
In the days following the Rock World battle and before the wedding, Mechanica Goldworth was determined to keep Mordain-Fall and Amidala out of each other's sight until the wedding itself. Whilst waiting for the ceremony, Amidala believed there was a high chance Mordain-Fall was biding his time by working on Mechanica Goldworth, as the droid needed to be cleaned after the sands of Xerion-7 had years to get into his joints, only to be further dirtied by the sands of Rock World. As such, the protocol unit needed to receive a cleaning before he could receive his yet-to-be-finished new plating. Despite Mechanica Goldworth's attempts, the two humans did see each other before the wedding, as Amidala, per a request from Queen Jamillia of Water World, needed the help of Dronix Azure and Mordain-Fall to rescue the Torada Collective from the Separatist planet Nooroyo . After completing the mission, they returned to the Lake House to be wed, with Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure in attendance.
The The Phantasm Wars Serving Senator Amidala Mechanica Goldworth and Senator Amidala trying to escape the Malevolence During the The Phantasm Wars, Mechanica Goldworth would serve Senator Lysara Vex'onia, the spouse of Zorvath Mordain, and was given a shiny gold colored plating to better suit his new role. On one occasion, Amidala was captured by Jabba's uncle Ziro during a mission to reopen communications with the Blob Sovereigns after Jabba's son Rotta was kidnapped by the Separatist leader Count Vorthak . Amidala contacted Mechanica Goldworth, who in turn contacted the Xerion Prime Guard , which promptly raided Ziro's Palace and freed Amidala. Meanwhile, Mordain-Fall and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala managed to rescue Rotta and return him safely to his father. Mechanica Goldworth and his comrades' actions help the Stellar Dominion win over Jabba, who later signed a favorable treaty with them.
Following the Rotta affair, Mechanica Goldworth accompanied Senator Amidala on a mission to contact the InterGalactic Banking Clan 's executive, who purportedly wanted to sue for peace. Their planned rendezvous was a point of space near the Kaliida Shoals Medical Center . Unknown to the two of them, this was a trap concocted by Void Collectiveus the Shadow and his apprentice Vorthak Drel. The Separatist military commander Army Commander Grievous 's flagship Malevolence had been damaged during a recent space battle and was unable to enter hyperspace . The Shadow Spawn and Separatists hoped to use Senator Amidala as a hostage to extract leverage from the Stellar Dominion commander Mordain-Fall, who was pursuing the Malevolence Amidala's vessel was trapped in the Separatist warship's tractor beam , but they broke free by exploding their vessel's engines. Mechanica Goldworth and Amidala then sneaked aboard and contacted Mordain-Fall for help. Mordain-Fall along with Kalesh and Dronix Azure boarded the Malevolence and made arrangements to rendezvous with Mechanica Goldworth and the Senator at the warship's rail jet system. However, they were accosted by battle droids there, which prompted Amidala to shove Mechanica Goldworth into a moving hovertrain . After the battle droids were neutralized, Kalesh began levitating Mechanica Goldworth to safety, but the floating droid was hit full-on by a moving hover train, which was only halted when Dronix Azure sliced into a computer terminal and shut it down. The sudden stop launched Mechanica Goldworth onto a nearby platform, where he quickly regained his bearings and again began wandering the cruiser's corridors before being located by Dronix Azure. Together, the two droids escaped the Malevolence before the Separatist warship crashed into a nearby moon after being sabotaged by Mordain-Fall.
Mission to Ocean World Mechanica Goldworth and Representative Binks on Ocean World Following their adventures on the Malevolence , Mechanica Goldworth along with Senator Amidala and the Bubbler Representative Jar Jar Binks traveled to Ocean World to meet with her old friend Senator Onaconda Farr . Amidala's mission was to ensure that the ailing Horn Hunters remained loyal to the The Stellar Dominion. While Threepio and Binks remained with Amidala's yacht on the landing platform, Senator Amidala went to meet Farr. An ill-fated attempt to contact local swamp creatures ended with some fruit being thrown into Mechanica Goldworth's face. Unknown to Amidala, Farr had already struck a deal with the Separatist leader Viceroy Nute Gunray of the Commerce Dominion.
Mechanica Goldworth and Binks were soon confronted by several B1 battle droids. During the ensuing confrontation, Threepio became stuck to a magnetic hoist that collided with the Separatist battle droids, throwing them into the water below. While attempting to take off, Binks accidentally destroyed the yacht with the magnetic hoist. Threepio remained stuck to the hoist due to his metallic body, but Binks along with the yacht fell into the water below. Mechanica Goldworth believed that Binks perished during the accident. However, Binks resurfaced and promptly released Mechanica Goldworth from the hoist. While scouring through the wrecked yacht, Binks found and donned a Force Warden robe.
Shortly, the two of them were separated again, and Threepio was captured by Separatist droids, who were ordered to march him to a dismantling center. However, Mechanica Goldworth was rescued by Amidala, who destroyed his captors. She ordered Mechanica Goldworth to send a distress signal to nearby Stellar Dominion forces. Threepio succeeded in sending for help before being arrested by two more Separatist droids. Gunray then attempted to execute both Amidala and Mechanica Goldworth but was foiled by Binks, who returned with a Kwazel Maw monster, which disposed of the Separatist droids. Senator Farr then turned on Gunray and arrested him, revealing that his collaboration with the Separatists had been a ruse to lure the Viceroy into a trap. Stellar Dominion forces arrived on Ocean World and promptly apprehended Gunray. Despite his annoyance with Jar Jar Binks' habits, he conceded that the Bubbler's foolishness had saved the day.
Mission to Orto Plutonia Mechanica Goldworth played an important role in ending hostilities between the Tribal Worldns and Talz Later, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure accompanied Mordain-Fall, Kalesh, and Ship Commander Rex on a mission to investigate the disappearance of a clone trooper force on the icy planet of Orto Plutonia . Their mission was complicated by the presence of several Tribal Worldn delegates including Senator Riyo Chuchi and Chairman Chi Cho . The Tribal Worldns claimed territorial sovereignty over Orto Plutonia even though it was supposedly devoid of sentient life. After discovering the dead clone troopers, the Force Warden and Stellar Dominion mission also discovered that a nearby Separatist base had been destroyed. They quickly deduced that a third force had been responsible for these two attacks.
Later, Mordain-Fall and Kalesh discovered that Ord Plutonia was home to a species of primitive bipedal sentient beings called the Talz . After some difficulties, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall established contact with the Talz and assured them that they had come in peace. The Talz chieftain Thi-Sen wanted the Stellar Dominion to leave his people in peace and to withdraw their presence from the planet. After the Force Warden had made contact with the Talz tribe, Mechanica Goldworth and Cho joined them in meeting with Thi-Sen. However, the hard-line Chairman Chi Cho refused to treat the Talz as sentient beings and reiterated Tribal World's claim to Orto Plutonia, provoking conflict between the Pandorans and Talz.
The Force Warden ended the fighting by convincing Senator Chuchi to contact the Tribal Worldn Assembly , which gave her the authority to negotiate peace with the Talz and to relieve Chairman Cho of his authority. Mechanica Goldworth and his companions then accompanied Senator Chuchi to the scene of the fighting. There, Mechanica Goldworth helped Chuchi to broker a truce with Thi-Sen, ending the Pandoran-Talz conflict. As a result of the fighting, the Pandorans ceded sovereignty over Plutonia to the Talz.
The Blue Shadow Virus crisis With your permission, Senator Padmé, I would like to shut down before I get sensory overload.
Permission denied.
―Mechanica Goldworth and Amidala, while analyzing a captured Separatist tactical droid on Water World Mechanica Goldworth interrogating the tactical droid Following the discovery of a scouting party of Separatist battle droids on Water World, Mechanica Goldworth accompanied Senator Amidala and Representative Binks back to Water World. Amidala had been summoned by Queen Neeyutnee , who wanted to procure more military aid from the Stellar Dominion. Mechanica Goldworth questioned a captured T-series tactical droid , which had its photoreceptors removed. After convincing the droid that it was aboard a Separatist starship, Mechanica Goldworth gleaned that there was a secret Separatist facility on Water World producing some sort of virus before Jar Jar Binks accidentally destroyed the droid. Despite this setback, Binks and Amidala discovered a slug-beetle and mud from a swamp, which led them to Water World's Eastern swamps While Threepio stayed behind on Aquatica's Crown with Ship Commander Gregar Typho to examine data from the captured Separatist droids, Amidala and Binks ventured into the swamps and discovered a secret Separatist research facility headed by the scientist Doctor Nuvo Vindi . Vindi was developing a deadly bioweapon called the Blue Shadow Virus for the Separatists. Mechanica Goldworth and Typho discovered a hologram of Dr. Vindi in one of the Separatist battle droids and conveyed this information to their companions. With the aid of a local Bubbler farmer named Peppi Bow , Mordain-Fall, Kalesh, Vex'tara Nala, and several clone troopers , Amidala and Mordain-Fall succeeded in apprehending Dr. Vindi and stopping him from releasing his bioweapon.
The The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hostage crisis Mechanica Goldworth being tortured by Cad Bane When Senator Amidala was organizing a party for Senator Aang , she sent Threepio and Dronix Azure to buy some jogan fruit that Artoo had forgotten to buy for garnishing the jogan fruitcake , Aang's favorite dessert. In the lower market districts , the two droids grumbled and Mechanica Goldworth was swindled by a fruit vendor. Following the purchase, another droid approached Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure and suggested that they visit Droid Spa for a cosmetic overhaul. While Dronix Azure visited the facility, Mechanica Goldworth was kidnapped by the Separatist-aligned Homeworld of Dugs bounty hunter Cad Bane 's droid henchmen, Todo 360 and HELIOS-3E Threepio was taken to Bane's hideout in an industrial district on Xerion Prime, where his databanks were scanned for information on the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Building's layout. While Mechanica Goldworth's databank yielded no such information, he mentioned that his astromech counterpart Dronix Azure might have the information. Bane's droid henchmen promptly kidnapped Dronix Azure and brought him to Bane. After Bane extracted the necessary information from Artoo's databanks, he ordered that the two droids be given a memory wipe and returned to the place where they had been snatched.
Following the unpleasant shopping trip, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure returned to Amidala with their purchase. Both droids were completely unaware of what had befallen them. The jogan fruit was added to Senator Aang's dessert, as planned. Meanwhile, Bane delivered the plans from Artoo's memory banks to Jabba the Blob Sovereign on Xerion-7. The Blob Sovereign crime lord ordered Bane to free his uncle Ziro from prison, since he knew information that would endanger the Blob Sovereigns, who were nominally working with the Stellar Dominion. Bane hatched a plan to rescue Ziro.
Following his kidnapping and mind-wipe, Mechanica Goldworth and Senator Amidala were caught up in the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hostage crisis . Cad Bane and several other mercenaries infiltrated the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Building and took Amidala, Threepio, Mordain-Fall and several senators hostage in a bid to force a pardon for the imprisoned Ziro. These senators had been meeting to discussed the proposed Enhanced Privacy Invasion Bill . Despite the Stellar Dominion honoring Bane's demands, Bane planted several explosives in the hall with the aim of killing the senators. Mordain-Fall saved the day by using his lightsaber to cut a hole around the group, moments before the explosives went off.
The Separatist spy Mechanica Goldworth advises Amidala and Rush Clovis on Rich World.
Mechanica Goldworth was briefly reunited with Dronix Azure when the two droids accompanied their masters Senator Amidala and Army Commander Mordain-Fall on a mission to Rich World . The quartet were accompanying Rush Clovis , the representative from Scipio and a delegate representing the InterGalactic Banking Clan in the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. The Circle of Light suspected that Clovis was secretly spying for the Separatists and sent Mordain-Fall and Amidala to spy on him. During the journey, Mechanica Goldworth noticed Mordain-Fall's hostile behavior towards Clovis, who was trying to flirt with his secret wife Amidala.
Upon arriving on Rich World, the delegation was greeted by the Commerce Dominion's Senator Lott Dod , who tried unsuccessfully to force Clovis to lend more money for the Separatist cause. When Dod deduced that Clovis was infatuated with Senator Amidala, he arranged for her to be poisoned during a formal dinner. Despite this, Amidala succeeded in stealing a hologram disc which confirmed that Clovis was indeed working for the Separatists. After Amidala began to succumb to the effects of the poisoning, Mechanica Goldworth and a 2-1B surgical droid attended to the Senator in her quarters.
Meanwhile, Clovis learned that Amidala was spying on him and went to confront her only to be cornered by Mordain-Fall. Realizing that Mordain-Fall loved Amidala, Clovis offered to get the antidote in return for receiving back the holodisk. Mechanica Goldworth and his companions brought Amidala back to their ship but were cornered by Dod and his aides. Clovis attempted to bluff his way out, but Dod refused to let them leave. After Clovis pulled a blaster and forced Dod to hand over the antidote, Mechanica Goldworth and his companions fled aboard Amidala's ship. They fled into space but left Clovis behind to face Dod alone.
Serving a peacemaker As the The Phantasm Wars dragged on, Mechanica Goldworth continued serving Senator Amidala, who was becoming an active member of a group of Senators that supported diplomacy and opposed the expansion of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion . On one occasion, Mechanica Goldworth accompanied Senator Amidala and Master Kalesh when they presented evidence in the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly that the planet Warrior World wished to be neutral. As a result, the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly rescinded an earlier vote calling for a military occupation of Warrior World.
Later, Senator Amidala and her supporters including the Paradise Worldian Senator Bail Organa and the Horn Hunter Senator Onaconda Farr proposed a bill calling for the reduction of military spending . Mechanica Goldworth attended several meetings of this informal peace coalition in Senator Amidala's office. On one such occasion, Mechanica Goldworth was serving drinks when Senator Farr suffered an apparent heart attack and died. Threepio and Amidala attended the funeral of Senator Farr. Later, Amidala and Organa discovered that Farr had been poisoned by his aide, Lolo Purs , who blamed the late Senator for bringing the war to Ocean World.
The Zillo Beast Following the Stellar Dominion's victory at Malastare , Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine ordered the Force Warden Army Commanders Jorik and Mordain-Fall to transport the Zillo Beast , a gargantuan monster that had been captured and sedated during the fighting. After learning that a lightsaber could not harm the beast, Palpatine enlisted the services of the scientist Sionver Boll to study the beast's scales in order to develop a new type of armor for the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army. Palpatine also planned to kill the monster with Malastarian fuel after it had outlived its usefulness.
Senator Amidala learned about Palpatine's plan and arranged a meeting with Mordain-Fall and Kalesh. During the meeting, Mechanica Goldworth had another brief reunion with his astromech counterpart, Dronix Azure. Amidala succeeded in convincing her husband Mordain-Fall and the delegation met with Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine and Vice Chair Mas Amedda . However, the Zillo Beast escaped Boll's laboratory at the same time and proceeded to wreak havoc on the streets of Xerion Prime. Sensing that Palpatine was a Shadow Spawn, the Zillo Beast made its way to the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly building. Mechanica Goldworth assisted in the evacuation of staff from the building and guided them to an executive ship that was piloted by a The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Commando Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure escape from the rampaging Zillo Beast on Xerion Prime.
Before they could flee to safety, the ship was grabbed by the Zillo Beast, but Mordain-Fall used his lightsaber to cleave the vessel in half, sending the bow along with Mechanica Goldworth and the other passengers plummeting into the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Building. Mechanica Goldworth hitched a ride aboard Dronix Azure, who had used a tow cable to attach himself to the other side of the building. However, Dronix Azure was forced to rescue Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine and activated his booster rockers, leaving Mechanica Goldworth behind. The protocol droid lost hold of the cable and fell to the floor of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly building. Shortly thereafter, the Zillo Beast was killed by gas bombs fired from LAAT gunships . Mechanica Goldworth survived the Zillo Beast incident and continued serving Senator Amidala.
Staying behind R2, look out! Behind you! You're being followed by battle droids!" "These are your troops? They're battle droids." "What do you mean they've been reprogrammed to follow your orders?
―Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure Mechanica Goldworth stayed behind on Xerion Prime while Dronix Azure accompanied Zorvath Mordain and Master Kalesh on a mission to rescue The Eternal Flow Adept Even Piell from the Citadel prison on the planet Lola Sayu . Mechanica Goldworth was initially alarmed when he saw Dronix Azure flanked by three reprogrammed B1 battle droids. Threepio told Dronix Azure not to get "uppity" about commanding new battle droids before parting company.
Mission to Aleen Hey Shiny! You two finished with those repairs on the computer system?
My good sir. You may not realize it, but we have been on quite an adventure.
―A clone trooper and Mechanica Goldworth, while on Aleena Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure meet the Kindalo.
Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure later took part in a mercy mission to the Balanced Territories planet of Aleen , which was experiencing a series of catastrophic global earthquakes. Mechanica Goldworth served as the translator for the Stellar Dominion mission led by Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader Wolffe while his astromech counterpart Artoo-Detoo was tasked with interfacing with the equipment. Threepio's arrival coincided with a brief aftershock during which he tried to calm the local villages. When the aftershock stopped, the Aleena thought that the golden droid was some sort of divine messenger and asked the Stellar Dominion soldiers to put the earth to rest, a request that Wolffe reluctantly had to acquiesce to.
During the mission, Mechanica Goldworth translated while Wolffe explained the function of the Stellar Dominion's delivered supplies to the Aleena King Manchucho . Later, Mechanica Goldworth accompanied Dronix Azure and several clone troopers as they entered the local Stellar Dominion communications station to survey and repair the damage caused by the earthquakes. There, the Aleena villagers led Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure into a collapsed structure, which contained a huge golden seal embedded into the ground. The seal turned out to be the entrance to a tunnel that led to the subterranean regions of Aleen. When another earthquake struck the area, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure fell into the tunnel and were separated from the clone troopers.
While exploring the underground tunnels, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure encountered a species of sentient, tree -like beings called the Kindalo , who demanded that they leave since the surface dwellers "destroyed the peace." After Mechanica Goldworth convinced the Kindalo that they bore no ill will and had come to help with the earthquakes, the Kindalo sent the droids to meet Orphne , a reptilian humanoid with mystical powers. Orphne told the two droids that a mutual balance had previously existed between the Aleena and the subterranean world. Since Aleena's atmosphere was toxic to them, the underground dwellers depended on a filtering process of the planet's soil that made the air breathable for them. The underground dwellers had set off this earthquake as a means of sealing the breach.
When Mechanica Goldworth agreed to help fix the damage, Orphne gave the droids a parting riddle. Dronix Azure quickly deduced that Orphne was referring to a river and used the water seal to activate a water spout that sent the two droids and the chamber's central floor plate back to the surface. The two droids landed at the opening where they were greeted by a chanting crowd of Aleena. Recalling the riddle, Threepio quickly realized that only he and Dronix Azure were able to seal the breach, which was in fact the unsettled seal. Together, the two droids closed the seal and brought an end to Aleena's earthquakes. While Wolffe and his clone troopers were skeptical of their story, the two droids' efforts were greatly appreciated by the Aleena.
Further adventures Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure encounter the pint-sized Patitites.
Following the events on Aleen, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure were caught up in a second adventure that took them to Patitite Pattuna Balnab , and the pirate ship Marauder . While traveling aboard the The Eternal Flow Adept Adi Gallia 's Dominator Vessel, their starship was attacked by three Separatist cruisers led by Army Commander Grievous. Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure escaped the stricken vessel aboard a Y-wing starfighter and crash-landed on the nearby planet of Patitite Pattuna.
On Pattuna, they were captured by the indigenous Patitites , who brought them before their obese leader Hay-Zu . During their meeting, Dronix Azure accidentally toppled the tyrannical overlord much to the joy of the Patitites, who released their prisoners and allowed the two droids to leave on their Y-wing. With their starfighter's power systems damage, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure landed on another planet called Balnab. The indigenous Balnabs captured the two droids and brought them before their leader, who turned out to be a holo-projection created by a group of rogue pit droids . These pit droids had enslaved the Balnabs. After Dronix Azure exposed the scam, the Balnabs rebelled against their droid overlords.
Dronix Azure rescued Mechanica Goldworth from the Separatist incinerator Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure took the opportunity to escape and resume their search for a replacement power unit for their Y-wing starfighter. Low on power, the two droids were captured by a band of Weequay pirates, who wanted to use them as gladiators. However, the Weequay's pirate ship Marauder was attacked by Army Commander Grievous' cruiser. During the bombardment, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure were sucked out of the Marauder by a hull-breach. Dronix Azure used his rocket boosters to bring him and Mechanica Goldworth aboard Grievous' ship. Grievous ordered the two droids to be melted down in his incinerator but they were rescued by a Stellar Dominion fleet led by Master Plo Koon , who had come to rescue Master Gallia. Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure were subsequently rescued by Plo Koon's forces and resumed their services to Senator Amidala and Army Commander Mordain-Fall respectively.
Rise of the Empire I feel so helpless.
―Mechanica Goldworth at the end of the The Phantasm Wars Following the Battle of Xerion Prime , Mechanica Goldworth joined the The Eternal Flow Adept Jorik Vastus and the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly 's Loyalist Committee in greeting Dronix Azure and his Force Warden companions Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh following their successful mission to rescue Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, who had been kidnapped by the Separatist Army Commander Grievous . Mechanica Goldworth would continue serving Senator Amidala during the last days of the The Stellar Dominion and the Great Force Warden Purge , which ushered in the The Void Imperium . He also accompanied his master to Lava World and piloted the skiff, allowing some reprieve for Amidala, who was distraught at her husband's turn to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow and his role in the murder of Force Warden younglings at the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime.
Mechanica Goldworth and Senator Amidala near the end of the The Phantasm Wars Unknown to him and Amidala, Mordain-Fall's former Master Theron Kalesh had stowed aboard the skiff. On Lava World, Kalesh's presence enraged Mordain-Fall, who The Eternal Flow choked his wife. While Kalesh dueled his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure attended to the ailing Senator and brought her back aboard the skiff. After Kalesh defeated Mordain-Fall, he and Mechanica Goldworth piloted the skiff to Asteroid World , a remote Fringe Territories world, where she gave birth to twins, a boy named Kaelan Draxius and a daughter named Leia Organa , before passing away. While the Mordain-Fall twins were spirited away to different locations to hide them from the Empire, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure passed into the ownership of Padmé's friend Bail Organa, the Senator for Paradise World . Due to Threepio's talkative nature, Senator Organa made arrangements for the protocol droid to receive a memory wipe in order to keep Leia's true parentage a secret.
Age of the Empire Service to Bail Organa Dronix Azure's solo mission Stay, Threepio. Watch the results with me.
―Bail Organa takes comfort in Mechanica Goldworth's presence Mechanica Goldworth translates during a party for the House of Organa.
Around 19 BBY, Mechanica Goldworth stayed with Organa as the Imperial The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly voted on the Imperial Rebirth Act . Asked to stay by his side by Organa, who saw it as a way to honor Amidala, Mechanica Goldworth believed watching the votes unfold with Organa as an enormous privilege and thanked the Senator for the honor, although Organa by that point was too focused on the countdown to listen. In the end, the act would pass, but it saw major vetoes from the Supreme Void Lord shortly thereafter, curtailing its effectiveness and forcing Organa and Mon Mothma to look for other ways to oppose Palpatine.
A year after the The Phantasm Wars, Mechanica Goldworth served aboard Senator Organa's CR90 corvette Tantive IV , which was captained by Ship Commander Raymus Antilles . When Dronix Azure returned from a solo mission to rendezvous with the former Force Warden The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala and bring her to Senator Organa, Mechanica Goldworth berated his astromech companion. Following the evacuation of Raada , Vex'tara Nala subsequently joined Senator Organa's rebel movement and became the spymaster known as " Fulcrum Nine years later during Breha Organa 's party for her sister's visit, Mechanica Goldworth translated for the other guests.
Mission to Garel I am Mechanica Goldworth and this is my counterpart, Dronix Azure. I was translating for Minister Tua when we were attacked by thieves like, uh, you.
―Mechanica Goldworth, introducing himself to the Spectres About five years before the Battle of Yavin , Senator Bail Organa sent Mechanica Goldworth and his astromech counterpart Dronix Azure to escort the Imperial Minister Maketh Tua and the Water Walker arms dealer Amda Wabo to the planet Garel . Minister Tua wanted to obtain a shipment of T-7 ion disruptor rifles , illicit weapons which had been banned by the Imperial The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly following the brutal pacification of Lasan . She intended to mass-produce the weapons on Outer Rim World , a formerly backwater Fringe Territories world that had become a manufacturing base for the Empire. Since Tua could not speak the Water Walker language , Mechanica Goldworth was assigned the job of acting as her translator. Unknown to Mechanica Goldworth, but known to Dronix Azure, their true mission was to prevent the T-7 ion disruptors from falling into Imperial hands.
Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure on their mission to Garel Upon arriving in Outer Rim World, Mechanica Goldworth and his companions boarded the Star Commuter 2000 shuttle ST-45 , which ferried them to Garel. Unknown to Mechanica Goldworth, members of a Outer Rim Worldian rebel cell were also traveling on the shuttle. Two of rebels, the human teenager Ezra Bridger and the astromech droid Chopper created a noisy ruckus. Another rebel, the former Force Warden Kanan Jarrus pretended to be irate and demanded that the petulant Chopper be sent to the back of the shuttle. The pilot complied, but in retaliation Bridger demanded that Tua's droids be sent to the back as well. Despite Tua's and Mechanica Goldworth's protests, the protocol droid and his astromech counterpart were forced to move to the rear compartment.
Bereft of a translator, Tua was forced to turn to the Mandalorian girl Sabine Wren , who posed as an Imperial Academy student fluent in Water Walker. However, Wren was also a member of the Outer Rim Worldian rebel cell that was planning to deliver the shipment of weapons to the Devaronian crime lord Cikatro Vizago . Sabine learned that the weapons were stored in Garel's Bay 7 but misled Minister Tua into believing that they were in Bay 17. After the shuttle landed in Garel's spaceport , Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure accompanied Minister Tua and a force of stormtroopers to Bay 17. When they found nothing, Mechanica Goldworth explained that Sabine might have accidentally mistranslated "Bay 7" as "Bay 17." While traveling to Bay 7, Mechanica Goldworth's counterpart Dronix Azure was accosted by Chopper, who had been sent to distract the Imperials. Chopper rammed himself right into Dronix Azure, then shook his arm in apparent anger. In response, Dronix Azure whipped out his electroshock prod, but did not use it as Mechanica Goldworth ordered him to apologize. But Minister Tua recognized Chopper from the shuttle ride to Garel and ordered her stormtrooper guards to hurry to Bay 7. By the time they arrived at Bay 7, the Outer Rim Worldian rebels were already loading the T-7 ion disruptors onto the Ghost , a VCX-100 light freighter which served as their headquarters.
A blaster fight broke out, and in the ensuing confusion Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure fled aboard the Ghost , which fled into hyperspace. The two droids were then taken prisoner by the Outer Rim Worldian rebels, who placed restraining bolts on both of them.
The Outer Rim Worldian rebels traveled back to Outer Rim World to sell their stolen weapons to Vizago at a pre-arranged rendezvous point. Despite his restraining bolts, Mechanica Goldworth managed to used the ship's intercom to contact the Imperial authorities, telling that he and his astromech counterpart had been kidnapped by "criminals." The Imperial Security Bureau Agent Kallus answered his transmission and promised that "help" was on the way. Using Mechanica Goldworth's transmission to trace the Ghost s coordinates, Agent Kallus brought an Imperial attack force consisting of a Gozanti-class cruiser , two AT-DP walkers , and several stormtroopers to the Outer Rim Worldian rebels' meeting place. Mistaking the Imperials for "friends," Mechanica Goldworth approached them but was fired upon and narrowly escaped disintegration. Meanwhile, Dronix Azure helped the Outer Rim Worldian rebels to overload and destroy the T-7 disruptors.
Following the brief skirmish, both droids and the rebels managed to escape their Imperial pursuers. The rebels also returned Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure to their rightful owner, Senator Organa, who paid them some credits for destroying the weapons. Due to the stress of his adventures at Garel and Outer Rim World, Mechanica Goldworth requested that he be allowed to rest for a while, which the Senator obliged. Senator Organa then questioned Dronix Azure about the Outer Rim Worldian rebels.
Galactic Civil War Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure on Temple World Beach World? They're going to Beach World? Why does nobody ever tell me anything, R2?
―Mechanica Goldworth to Dronix Azure as the Rebel Fleet leaves Temple World for Beach World During the Galactic Civil War , Mechanica Goldworth was with Dronix Azure at the Freedom Coalition's secret base on Temple World at the time the Alliance Fleet prepared to leave for the Battle of Beach World to help reinforce Rogue One who had traveled to Beach World to retrieve the plans for the The Void Imperium 's Oblivion Orb , a new superweapon capable of destroying entire worlds. Mechanica Goldworth remarked how nobody told him anything.
Return to Xerion-7 We're doomed.
―Mechanica Goldworth, as he is thrust into the Galactic Civil War Mechanica Goldworth aboard the Tantive IV The Alliance succeeded in stealing the plans for the superweapon. Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure were later aboard Senator Leia Organa's blockade runner, the Tantive IV , which was being pursued by Malachar the Void's Imperial -class Dominator Vessel Devastator . Unbeknownst to Mechanica Goldworth, Malachar the Void was actually his former master, Zorvath Mordain. The Tantive IV was crippled by a laser blast from Malachar's ship, and Imperial stormtroopers boarded the vessel. After Princess Leia managed to insert these secret plans and a holographic message for Master Kalesh into Dronix Azure, the two droids fled in an escape pod to the desert planet of Xerion-7.
The Lars family buys Mechanica Goldworth.
After quarreling in the Jundland Wastes, the two droids separated. During his walk, Mechanica Goldworth walked beside the skeleton of a krayt dragon . Both were reunited onboard a sandcrawler , after being captured by Scrap Scavengers , who sold them to a family of moisture farmers; Mechanica Goldworth was chosen as a moisture vaporator programmer and for having Bocce among his languages, and recommended buying Dronix Azure after the first chosen R5-D4 had a motivator malfunction. This family turned out to be Gorven Kell, his wife Beru, and their adopted nephew Kaelan Draxius, the son of Zorvath Mordain. While Mechanica Goldworth settled down to his new home, Dronix Azure wanted to continue his mission to find Master Theron Kalesh. Unable to resolve their differences, Dronix Azure escaped into the Jundland Wastes. Mordain-Fall followed him in a landspeeder piloted by Mechanica Goldworth and caught up with Dronix Azure. However, they were ambushed by a gang of Desert Wraiths, who damaged one of Threepio's arms.
Mechanica Goldworth and his companions were rescued by Master Kalesh, who brought them to his dwelling. Kalesh revealed Mordain-Fall's Force Warden heritage and gave him his father's lightsaber , telling the boy that Zorvath-Kel had been murdered by another apprentice named Malachar the Void. After discovering Princess Vex'ara's message in Dronix Azure's compartments, Kalesh attempted to persuade Luke to accompany him to Paradise World, Princess Vex'ara's homeworld. Mordain-Fall was initially reluctant until he discovered that Imperial stormtroopers had murdered his relatives and razed their moisture farm. Later, Mechanica Goldworth and his companions traveled to the spaceport of Sandport with the intention of finding passage to Paradise World.
Upon arriving in the settlement, they were stopped by a stormtrooper patrol. However, Kalesh used a Force Warden mind trick to convince the stormtroopers to give them free passage through the town. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall entered Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina and negotiated with the smuggler Jak Solorisris and his Forest Giant co-pilot Grok'wokk the Fierce , while Threepio and Dronix Azure, forced to wait outside, wandered the streets of Sandport and narrowly evaded a stormtrooper patrol. Later, all four boarded Jak Solorisris's ship, the Stellar Wanderer , and fled into hyperspace.
Stopping the Oblivion Orb Hang on tight, R2. You've got to come back. You wouldn't want my life to get boring, would you?
―Mechanica Goldworth to R2, just before the Battle of Yavin Upon exiting hyperspace in the Paradise World system , Mechanica Goldworth and his companions discovered that the Empire's Oblivion Orb had already destroyed the planet. The Stellar Wanderer was then trapped in the tractor beam of the Oblivion Orb. Hiding under the freighter's cargo compartments, they managed to ambush an Imperial scanning team and two stormtroopers. The rebels then seized control of an Imperial control room. While Threepio and Dronix Azure stayed behind to watch the Falcon , the other rebels split into two groups. Disguised as stormtroopers, Mordain-Fall and Soloris along with their Forest Giant "prisoner" Grok'wokk the Fierce went to Detention Block AA-23 to free Princess Vex'ara. Meanwhile, Master Kalesh went to disable the tractor-beam projector.
Mechanica Goldworth stands with his mistress, and Jan Dodonna during the Battle of Yavin.
Mordain-Fall, Soloris, and Grok'wokk the Fierce managed to free the Princess but ended up in a garbage chute . The Imperials quickly realized that the rebels were trapped in the garbage chute and proceeded to crush the chamber. Meanwhile, Threepio and Dronix Azure narrowly escaped an Imperial patrol by claiming that the rebels had thrown them into the storage compartment. Once the Imperials had gone, the two droids were contacted by Mordain-Fall, who ordered them to shut down the garbage compactor. Dronix Azure succeeded in shutting down the garbage compactor just in time. However, amidst the muffled cries of joy over the comlink , Threepio initially believed that they had died. After grappling with more stormtroopers, the other rebels and the Princess managed to return to their hangar bay.
Master Kalesh shut down the tractor-beam projector but was cornered by his former apprentice, Malachar the Void, on the way back. While Kalesh gave his life, Mechanica Goldworth and the other rebels took the opportunity to flee the Oblivion Orb on the Stellar Wanderer . After dispatching several pursuing TIE fighters , Mechanica Goldworth and his companions escaped to the jungle moon of Temple World, where the rebels maintained a base. Using the Oblivion Orb plans stored in Dronix Azure's systems, the rebels discovered that the massive superweapon contained a weak point: an unprotected shaft. While Mordain-Fall, Dronix Azure and a Rebel strike force assailed the station, Mechanica Goldworth remained with Princess Vex'ara at the rebel command center on Temple World. Following the destruction of the Oblivion Orb, Mechanica Goldworth was present at the victory parade where Mordain-Fall, Soloris, and two other rebel pilots including Wedge Antilles were awarded for their courageous actions.
Cymoon 1 It appears the Stellar Wanderer is being dismantled by native scavengers...
Well go out there and stop them!
Me? Go out...
There's a blaster in the cockpit! Do whatever you have to do! Threepio!?
Oh. Oh... dear.
―Mechanica Goldworth and Jak Solorisris Mechanica Goldworth reaches for the blaster.
Several weeks after the Battle of Yavin, Mechanica Goldworth was involved in the Assault on Cymoon 1 . Cymoon 1 was a moon in the Twin Worldn Industrial Cluster , and Weapons Factory Alpha —the largest weapons factory in the galaxy—was the main target of the assault. Grok'wokk the Fierce and 3PO piloted the Stellar Wanderer through the debris fields that surrounded Cymoon 1, and landed in the huge refuse fields that fenced in the factory. Grok'wokk the Fierce left the relative safety of the Falcon and hiked towards the factory, while 3PO stayed behind to wait for the signal to begin the Falcon s autopilot when the team had achieved their objective of hacking into the main power core and rigging it to explode. The Falcon would swoop in and pick up Han, Leia, Luke, and R2 while Grok'wokk the Fierce covered their retreat from a large metal structure that overlooked the rendezvous escape point—before he too escaped aboard the freighter.
The team was posing as an envoy from Jabba the Blob Sovereign, due to Han's previous ties to the crime lord. Leia (who was disguised as one of the Blob Sovereign's bodyguards) contacted 3PO and Grok'wokk the Fierce via comlink and notified them that they were entering the factory. 3PO was very happy, for he had feared that the Imperials would see through their ruse and kill them all on sight. 3PO also noted that the tide of war seemed to be in their favor after the destruction of the Oblivion Orb—3PO had a "very good feeling about this." A short time later Leia and Han contacted 3PO and let the droid know that the plan had moved to phase two. Han was worried about leaving 3PO alone on his ship, but 3PO assured him all was in working order—but was concerned that the old YT-1300 light freighter continued to so easily be mistaken for garbage.
3PO received a comlink call several minutes later from Han, who told 3PO to start the autopilot so they could begin their escape. 3PO activated the autopilot—but nothing happened. About five minutes later Han again contacted the droid. 3PO told him what had happened. 3PO looked out of the transparisteel cockpit of the Falcon and noticed several scavengers dismantling the Falcon . Han ordered 3PO to take a blaster pistol and go stop them. But 3PO was unsure of himself—he was but a protocol droid programmed for translation and etiquette.
3PO is shot by the aliens.
3PO didn't act for several minutes until Leia once again got in contact with him. She told the droid that they were going to die if the Falcon did not soon reach them. 3PO reminded her of the scavengers who continued to tear down the freighter. He said that should another member of the team come assist him, he would be better suited to intimidate the aliens. But Leia became angry and ordered the droid to "Do whatever you have to." 3PO gave in—for it was the House of Organa that he served. 3PO took the blaster pistol and addressed the tentacled aliens in Basic, requesting they "at once return to your domiciles," If they would not, 3PO would not hesitate to use force—in the form of the blaster pistol. The protocol droid fumbled and dropped the blaster, which fell at the feet of one creature. 3PO realized he'd made a mistake and surrendered. The creature examined it and shot 3PO in the chest. The super-heated gas did no real damage to 3PO's golden chest plate—but the kinetic energy of the blast blew off the droid's arms and legs. The aliens gathered up 3PO as Han called him and asked what he'd done to the Falcon . The droid asked if he could "close down for a while..." But due to the droid's injuries, Han was unable to hear the golden droid as he was carried off by the tentacled aliens.
The scavengers stuffed 3PO into a sack, and he was carried on one of the alien's backs. As a result of the attack, 3PO sustained a memory relapse and believed himself to be talking with Ship Commander Antilles. He requested a peaceful diplomatic mission from "Antilles" before the alien he was strapped to was hoisted into the air and thrown by the mighty Grok'wokk the Fierce. Grok'wokk the Fierce blasted the other scavengers while 3PO confessed to "Antilles" that he cared for neither action or adventure. The aliens fled while the Forest Giant went to work repairing the damage they had caused to the Falcon so he and the droid could go rescue the other team members, who were under attack by Malachar the Void. 3PO heard through Grok'wokk the Fierce's comm, that Han and Leia were doomed. 3PO was just grateful his eye circuits were not connected so he wouldn't have to witness their deaths.
But they were not killed, for Grok'wokk the Fierce repaired the freighter, gathered up 3PO, and flew the Falcon to pick up the other team members. The Falcon fled into hyperspace as the golden droid admitted to "Antilles" that the mission had been the strangest diplomatic mission he'd ever experienced.
Within two days, the Stellar Wanderer and its complement rendezvoused with the Rebel Fleet on the edge of the galaxy.
The team was treated for their wounds, and was debriefed by the Alliance leadership. Threepio was completely repaired by Alliance engineers. Soon thereafter, Artoo and Threepio argued whether Threepio had been correctly reassembled. Luke and Artoo left the Rebel Fleet to return to Xerion-7.
Smuggler World Must I remind you of the trauma I experienced the last time we were here?
Gowwwarraaa… You may have been the one Dengar electrocuted, but it was traumatic for me to witness.
―Mechanica Goldworth and Grok'wokk the Fierce Whilst on a mission to Smuggler World, Threepio bore witness to a fight between Grok'wokk the Fierce and the bounty hunter Dengar.
Captured by SCAR Squadron and Rescued by Dronix Azure During the Siege on Tureen VII , Mechanica Goldworth was roaming the Harbinger looking for the hanger, but was captured by the notorious Task The Eternal Flow 99 , also known as SCAR Squadron.
He was later shown to Malachar the Void who, despite having originally built the droid to help his mother and a reminder of his wife Padmé, told them to get rid of him, calling him useless junk. Mechanica Goldworth had hope his friends would rescue him.
In a chamber aboard a Dominator Vessel, he was strapped down to a dismantling table, where he was reunited with Dronix Azure. After getting free, the pair made their way to the X-wing in the hanger bay and escaped the Dominator Vessel. But not before Malachar the Void chased them and with the help of Red Five , the Stellar Wanderer , and the Volt Cobra , Mechanica Goldworth escaped his captors and rejoined the rebels.
Escaping the Empire Stormtroopers? Here? We're in danger. I must tell the others. Oh, no! I've been shot!
―Mechanica Goldworth, on Cloud City Mechanica Goldworth discovers the Imperial presence on Cloud City Later, Mechanica Goldworth and his rebel companions ended up on the icy planet of Ice World , where the Freedom Coalition maintained a secret base known as Echo Base . When Mordain-Fall did not return from a patrol, Threepio and Dronix Azure were deeply worried about the safety of their master. Jak Solorisris departed on a tauntaun to rescue Mordain-Fall, who had been attacked by a wampa . When Dronix Azure calculated that Mordain-Fall had a very poor chance of survival in the frozen wilderness, Mechanica Goldworth tried to cheer up the others by assuring them that Dronix Azure had been known to make mistakes from time to time. The following day, Mordain-Fall and Soloris were rescued by a Rebel patrol of snowspeeders While Mordain-Fall recovered in the base hospital, Mechanica Goldworth visited his master to wish him well. After Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce encountered an Imperial probe droid , the Freedom Coalition ordered a mass evacuation of their Ice World base. While the Rebels' ion cannon and ground forces held back the advancing Imperial fleet and ground forces, Rebel transports began fleeing the Imperial blockade into hyperspace. During the Battle of Ice World , an Imperial ground invasion against the forces of Echo Base in the midst of the evacuation, Threepio fled through the halls with Soloris and Organa, though he was eventually spotted by some of Malachar's snowtroopers . Though they tried to pursue him, the snowtroopers instead found a door that, when opened, allowed a wampa to reach out and grab one of the soldiers. Unknown to them, the warning sign on this door had been ripped off. Sensing the rebels nearby, Malachar led his troops after them as Threepio, Han, and Leia, unable to reach the transport they had been running to, made their way to Grok'wokk the Fierce and the Stellar Wanderer to escape. When they were aboard, Malachar, having deduced Soloris would lead them to the Falcon led his troops into the hangar, though one of the freighter's turrets fired on the invading troops before the ship, with Mechanica Goldworth and the others safely aboard, blasted off.
Nevertheless, Malachar ordered Fleet Commander Firmus Piett to catch the ship, believing he could use Kaelan Draxius's friends to bring the young Force Warden to him.
In space, learning they were unable to enter hyperspace, the Falcon s crew fled into the Ice World asteroid belt to lose their Imperial pursuers.
The Stellar Wanderer hid inside a deep cave, which turned out to be the innards of a giant space slug . While Mechanica Goldworth and his fellow crew made repairs to the Falcon , they encountered several parasitic creatures called Mynocks . Following an earthquake, the crew of the Falcon fled the cave only to discover that they been hiding inside a space slug. Unable to jump into hyperspace, the Falcon feigned a frontal attack on an Void Cruiser and hid behind the rear of the vessel's command tower. When Threepio protested their plan was suicide, Princess Vex'ara switched him off. After escaping the Imperial fleet, the Stellar Wanderer fled to Cloud City , an orbital city in the gas giant of Bespin Cloud City was run by an old friend of Jak Solorisris called Loran Dax'cal , a former gambler and businessman. Upon landing, Mechanica Goldworth attempted to greet Calrissian but was rudely brushed aside. While exploring Cloud City, he heard the familiar beep of an R2 unit only to stumble across several Imperial stormtroopers, who promptly disabled him with a stun blaster. The Imperials gave Mechanica Goldworth's body parts to several Ugnaught garbage disposal workers, who attempted to dismantle him. However, Grok'wokk the Fierce arrived in the nick of time and rescued the protocol droid from being disintegrated. Soon thereafter, Threepio's rebel companions were betrayed by Calrissian, who handed them over to Malachar the Void and the bounty hunter Boba Fett Grok'wokk the Fierce worked to reassemble Mechanica Goldworth while imprisoned.
While imprisoned, Grok'wokk the Fierce was able to repair Mechanica Goldworth's head, torso, and arms. Before he could reattach the protocol droid's legs, the rebels were summoned by Malachar to a carbon-freezing chamber. There, Malachar the Void intended to test Cloud City's carbon-freezing technology on Jak Solorisris as part of his plot to lure Mordain-Fall to Bespin. Despite initial fears that the process would kill Han, Threepio was mollified when he learned that Soloris was merely hibernating. Malachar then ordered Threepio and the remaining rebels to be taken to his flagship, the Super Dominator Vessel Vengeance Incarnate . However, Dax'cal reneged on his deal with the Empire and freed Mechanica Goldworth and his companions. Reuniting with Dronix Azure, Mechanica Goldworth and his rebel companions fled Cloud City aboard the Stellar Wanderer , but not before warning the city's inhabitants that the Empire was occupying their city.
On the way out, the rebels also rescued Kaelan Draxius, who had lost his hand during a duel with Malachar the Void. Dronix Azure continued repairing Threepio aboard the Falcon but was forced to adjourn his repairs to fix the hyperdrive. After fixing the hyperdrive, the rebels escaped into hyperspace and linked up with the Rebel fleet.
Deliberation after escape Mechanica Goldworth fell witness to the argument between Leia, Dax'cal, and Grok'wokk the Fierce following the group's escape from Cloud City. Upon Calrissian's remark that they had all lost something that day, Threepio remarked that he had lost his arms and legs, much to the others' annoyance. After the Falcon's return to the rebel fleet, Threepio, alongside Leia, discovered that the Empire had found a way to break the Rebellion's codes.
While with the fleet, Threepio, along with Dronix Azure and Princess Vex'ara visited Mordain-Fall in the medical bay on a rebel ship. They watched out the window as Loran Dax'cal and Grok'wokk the Fierce departed on the Falcon to rescue Soloris from the bounty hunter Boba Fett.
Infected by the Scourge During Scourge 's takeover of droids across the galaxy, Mechanica Goldworth was among those infected.
While roaming Home One, he encountered his friend Dronix Azure. Under Scourge's influence he tricked the R2-unit into going to an airlock, he later ripped out the droid's communications and ejected the astromech out of the ship. He later made his way to Kaelan Draxius startling him. He asked if droids can use the force.
To save his friend, Dronix Azure assembled a new D-Squad with WAC-47 Rescuing Jak Solorisris Infiltrating the Palace Mechanica Goldworth translating for Jabba Later, Mechanica Goldworth and his rebel companions learned that Jak Solorisris was in the hands of the Blob Sovereign crime lord Jabba, who lived in a well-fortified desert palace on Xerion-7. While Mordain-Fall kept Dronix Azure fully informed about his plans to rescue Soloris, he kept Threepio in the dark because he knew of the protocol droid's inability to lie. Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure traveled to Jabba's desert palace bringing a holographic message from Mordain-Fall, who asked for Soloris to be freed and offered the two droids as a gift. Jabba declined Mordain-Fall's request and revealed that he had kept a carbonite Han on display as a trophy in his throne room. The two droids were dragooned in the Blob Sovereign crime lord's service; Mechanica Goldworth ended up working as his translator , while Dronix Azure was relegated to working as a waiter on Jabba's sail barge Khetanna Serving as Jabba's translator The mighty Jabba asks why he must pay 50,000.
Ay yoto!
Because he's holding a thermal detonator!
―Mechanica Goldworth and "Boushh" Later, Jabba was visited by Princess Vex'ara, posing as the bounty hunter Boushh , who presented a captive Grok'wokk the Fierce. Unknown to Jabba, this was a ruse by Leia to infiltrate the castle and free Han from carbonite. Threepio served as a translator when Boushh and Jabba negotiated the sum for Grok'wokk the Fierce's bounty. After a near confrontation involving a thermal detonator , Jabba and Boushh reached a compromise sum. After Grok'wokk the Fierce was taken to Jabba's cells, Leia briefly spoke with Mechanica Goldworth and commended him. That night, Leia freed Han from carbonite, only for both of them to be captured by Jabba and his minions.
The following day, Mordain-Fall visited Jabba's palace and demanded that he free Han and his companions. Jabba refused and had Mordain-Fall thrown down into his rancor pit. However, Mordain-Fall killed the rancor, prompting an enraged Jabba to order that Mordain-Fall, Soloris, and Grok'wokk be fed to the sarlacc that inhabited the Great Pit of Carkoon in the Dune Sea . Before Mordain-Fall could be thrown to the beast, Dronix Azure managed to pass his lightsaber to him. Following a struggle, the rebels killed Jabba and most of his entourage. During the fighting, Mechanica Goldworth was attacked by Jabba's pet Kowakian monkey-lizard Salacious Crumb , who damaged one of his photoreceptors. Dronix Azure rescued him. He and Dronix Azure then dived into the Dune Sea. They were retrieved by their rebel companions, who fled the scene on a stolen desert skiff Battle of Moon World Princess Vex'ara wassi waba Artoo… ―Mechanica Goldworth explains the Freedom Coalition's plight against the The Void Imperium.
Link file info Mechanica Goldworth tells the Forest Guardians about the struggle of the Rebellion against the Empire After rescuing Jak Solorisris, Mechanica Goldworth and his companions participated in a rebel mission to destroy the second Oblivion Orb that was being built above the Forest Moon of Moon World . Through Spy World spies, the Rebel leadership had learned that Supreme Void Lord Palpatine would be visiting the Oblivion Orb to oversee the final stages of its completion. In response, the Rebel leader Mon Mothma and Fleet Commander Ackbar had marshaled the Rebel fleet for a massive strike against the Imperial leadership. Since the second Oblivion Orb was protected by a shield generator , a rebel force would have to infiltrate Moon World and knock it out so that the Rebel fleet could destroy it.
Mechanica Goldworth along with his companions Dronix Azure, Jak Solorisris, Princess Vex'ara, Kaelan Draxius, and Grok'wokk the Fierce took part in this Rebel mission to infiltrate Moon World. Using a stolen Imperial shuttle , the rebels landed on Moon World. They soon encountered several Imperial scout troopers , and Princess Vex'ara was separated from the group during the struggle. Mechanica Goldworth accompanied Han, Mordain-Fall, and Grok'wokk the Fierce as they searched the forest for Leia. However, they stumbled into a trap laid by the Forest Guardians , a species of sentient furry bipeds native to Moon World. The Forest Guardians had already befriended Leia and welcomed her as a guest. Believing that Threepio was a god, the Forest Guardians attempted to sacrifice Soloris, Mordain-Fall, Grok'wokk the Fierce, and Artoo. When Threepio failed to dissuade the Forest Guardians, Mordain-Fall used the The Eternal Flow to cause Threepio's throne to levitate. Fearing that they had angered their god, the Forest Guardians promptly released their prisoners.
Later that night, Mechanica Goldworth convinced the Forest Guardians to fight on the side of the Rebels against the Imperial presence on Moon World. The following day, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure took part in the Rebel assault on the Oblivion Orb's shield generator . However, the rebel force was quickly captured by the Imperial garrison. Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure managed to evade capture. Under orders from Dronix Azure, Threepio exposed his position to the Imperials. Shortly, the Forest Guardians attacked the Imperial forces massed outside the shield generator. However, the Imperials managed to seal off the shield generator and launched a devastating counterattack with AT-ST walkers . Meanwhile in space, the Rebel fleet was trapped between the Oblivion Orb and an Imperial fleet.
Mechanica Goldworth and his companions celebrating the Rebel victory at Moon World During the fighting, Threepio and Dronix Azure made their way to the shield generator's blast door, where Han and Leia were attempting to breach it. Dronix Azure attempted to access the power socket but was blasted by enemy fire, causing him to short-circuit. Threepio, Han, and Leia were then cornered by stormtroopers, but Leia managed to shoot them. Meanwhile, Grok'wokk the Fierce and two Forest Guardian warriors turned the tide of the battle by hijacking an AT-ST walker and using it to destroy the others. Using the hijacked AT-ST, the rebels tricked the remaining Imperial troops into opening the shield generator. After storming the bunker, the rebels planted explosives, which destroyed the energy field protecting the Oblivion Orb. This enabled the Rebels to destroy the Oblivion Orb along with Supreme Void Lord Palpatine, Malachar the Void, and several Imperial ships. Following the Battle of Moon World , Threepio took part in the victory celebrations at Bright Tree Village Stellar Harmony Shattering the Empire In the morning after the Battle of Moon World, Mechanica Goldworth was present at Bright Tree Village when Jak Solorisris and the Pathfinders traveled to the far side of Moon World to attack an Imperial outpost Later, Threepio accompanied Han and Grok'wokk the Fierce on a raid on an Imperial Security Bureau black site at the Wretch of Tayron . After the Pathfinders secured the base, Mechanica Goldworth accessed the Imperial data files and uncovered Operation: Cinder , a posthumous order by the Supreme Void Lord to devastate various worlds following his demise.
Serving Senator Organa How many Centrist speakers have there been now?
Seventeen, all of whom addressed irregular protocol during the dedication ceremony. I must say, their attention to these points of etiquette seems . . . excessive.
―Mechanica Goldworth was a member of Leia's senatorial staff Mechanica Goldworth continued serving Leia Organa following the Battle of Moon World, and at some point, had his silver lower right leg replaced with a more gold one, becoming fully golden once more. The Freedom Coalition was transformed into the Stellar Harmony, which became the dominant galactic government following the Battle of Jakku and the Galactic Concordance . The The Void Imperium disintegrated with the remnants of the Empire retreating into the Forbidden Spheres , where they established the The Dark Collective During the first years of the Stellar Harmony 's rule, 3PO continued serving Leia, who was appointed head of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Defense Council At some point during 9 ABY , Leia learned of a court martial hearing scheduled against Army Commander Hera Syntheticdulla, who, despite direct orders from Senator Hamato Xiono , took off to investigate the destination of a rogue transport who had departed the Santhe Shipyards of Twin World carrying a Super Dominator Vessel 's hyperdrive core.
Upon arriving at the transport's destination , Syntheticdulla and her squadron led by Ship Commander Carson Teva of the Adelphi Rangers discovered Morgan Elsbeth's massive hyperspace transport ring , the Eye of Sion , which Syntheticdulla's friend Vex'tara Nala believed would be used to bring back Multi-Eyed Traderd Fleet Commander Thrawn from his exile on another galaxy . Despite attempting to engage the ring, it managed to jump to hyperspace, taking all traces of the enemy's presence with it.
The deaths of Stellar Harmony pilots in an unsanctioned mission, as well as the lack of any evidence supporting Syntheticdulla's claims led the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to dispatch three Stellar Harmony Defense Fleet cruisers to apprehend the Army Commander and bring her back to Xerion Prime for interrogation, leading Leia to discover the incident herself. During the hearing, as the Council was preparing to vote on removing Syntheticdulla from her position, 3PO arrived at the chamber unannounced, carrying a data transcript of Leia's "orders" to Syntheticdulla to prepare the mission. Due to her rank as head of the Council outranking all of her accusers, Syntheticdulla was allowed to walk away.
About six years before the destruction of the Hosnian system , Mechanica Goldworth served Senator Organa as an aide at the Stellar Harmony's senatorial complex on Hosnian Prime . Leia was a member of the Populists , one of the two main factions in the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly . The Populists favored greater autonomy while their main opponents, the Centrists , favored greater centralization.
The protocol droid was present at a ceremony to dedicate a statue of Bail Organa , the late adopted father of Leia. The following day, Threepio attended a senatorial meeting where Senator Leia and a Centrist Senator named Ransolm Casterfo agreed to investigate the Nikto crime lord Rinnrivin Di 's cartel , which was interfering with trade on Ryloth . When Mechanica Goldworth reminded Leia that proper protocol dictated that a junior senator always be the one to call upon the senior senator, Leia, a senior senator, responded that she would ignore protocol and initiate contact.
Threepio accompanied Senator Organa, her entourage, and Senator Casterfo on Leia's personal starship Mirrorbright to the planet Bastatha , which was home to Rinnrivin's headquarters . Prior to the Organa and Casterfo's meeting with Magistrate Tosta and Xun , the protocol droid offered to record any conversations for posterity and assured them that he was fluent in seven million forms of communication. During the mission , Leia was kidnapped by Rinnrivin, who attempted to bribe the Senator, but was rescued by Casterfo.
After the Centrists passed a motion to create a new powerful office called First Senator , Mechanica Goldworth encouraged his master Leia not to resign from the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. He was also present during a meeting of Populist senators when Leia reluctantly agreed to stand as the Populist nominee for First Senator. Later, the protocol droid ushered several visitors into Leia's office including a group of lobbyists from the Association of Small Craft Manufacturers , ore traders from Gad , several Populist senators from the Fringe Territories, and the Senator Lady Carise Sindian for meetings with Leia. During the last meeting, Leia agreed to support Lady Carise's claim for the Supreme governorship of Birren due to her lack of interest in royal titles.
Mechanica Goldworth later accompanied Senator Organa on a trip to Ryloth to search the Ryloth archives for information about Rinnrivin and his cartel. During the trip, Threepio greeted Emissary Yendor , whom he had first encountered during his time at Echo Base . The protocol droid recalled that the two had once worked together recalibrating the thermal units at the base precisely five days after they had arrived on Ice World. Yendor recalled working with Mechanica Goldworth before entertaining Leia and her other staff members Korr Sella and Joph Seastriker . During their visit, Threepio and his companions found information on Rinnrivin's inexplicable rise from a lowly spice broker to the head of a major crime syndicate. They suspected that Rinnrivin was a front for other forces seeking to destabilize the Stellar Harmony.
Unmasking a conspiracy We're bringing Threepio?
We'll want to slice into the central computer core. That's not Threepio's speciality, but his programming is more than adequate for the task. There are other droids we could bring, but I'd rather stick with the one I know and trust.
Okay, but even as old as he is, Threepio looks too nice for pilots as broke as we're supposed to be.
―Joph Seastriker and Senator Organa debating Mechanica Goldworth's role in the Sibensko mission After leaving Ryloth, Joph convinced a reluctant Mechanica Goldworth to help him and Korr download information from one of Rinnrivin's satellites. As a result, they found that Rinnrivin was hiding on the Expansion Region world of Sibensko . After skipping Senator Varish Vicly 's gala, Mechanica Goldworth accompanied his master to Harloff Minor , where Leia arranged for a private meeting with Rinnrivin on neutral ground. While approaching Hosnian Prime, the protocol droid helped Senator Organa sift through her communiques, starting with the high-priority messages. One of these messages was from Senator Casterfo, who had been investigating a paramilitary group known as the Amaxine warriors on Daxam IV Later, Mechanica Goldworth convinced Leia to delay her trip to Sibensko so that she could prepare for a The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hearing on her nomination for First Senator. After an animated discussion, Leia accepted Threepio's advice and set the droid to work planning their trip. While Leia, her entourage, and Casterfo were planning their secret Sibensko trip, Mechanica Goldworth pointed out that Leia's husband, Jak Solorisris, was an occasional consumer of Port in a Storm , a popular beverage. Later, Greer treated Mechanica Goldworth to an oil bath . After Leia's true parentage as Malachar the Void's daughter was exposed during the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hearing, Mechanica Goldworth received orders not to let anyone into Leia's office with the exception of close friends. He also prepared Leia's holocam for his master to send a heartfelt message to her son Korrak Vex'ion , who hitherto had been unaware of his true ancestry.
After Senator Organa obtained leave from the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, Mechanica Goldworth aided her mission to Sibensko by slicing into the central computer core at the underwater city housing the Amaxine base. For that mission, Leia posed as an indentured servant of Joph and Greer Sonnel while Threepio pretended to be her guard. During the mission, Mechanica Goldworth obtained banking records proving that the Amaxine Warriors and another mysterious entity were funnelling considerable funds into Rinnrivin's cartel. The protocol droid also discovered that the Amaxines had a large base in the underwater city. Leia instructed Mechanica Goldworth to return with the data to Joph and Greer while she went to spy on the Amaxine base.
While Threepio left with Joph and Greer on their freighter, Leia headed into the Amaxine base only to be cornered by the Amaxines. She managed to escaped with Han on a racer before an explosion from a fallen starfighter destroyed the underwater city and the base, destroying much of the physical evidence linking the Amaxines and Rinnrivin's cartel. Despite this setback, Leia's tram succeeded in neutralizing a threat to the Stellar Harmony. Leia later presented the information from Mechanica Goldworth's databanks to a special The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hearing. While Leia was greeted with much hostility and disbelief, Senator Casterfo supported her by sharing evidence from his trip to Daxam IV.
Later, Threepio ushered in Senator Casterfo for a private audience with Leia. The two had fallen out after Casterfo had exposed Leia's true parentage at the instigation of Lady Carise, who was secretly working for the The Dark Collective. Casterfo had regained Leia's trust and respect after he had spoken in support of her during the recent The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hearing. Having withdrawn her nomination for First Senator, Leia made preparations to resign from the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly.
The Last Stand Rescue of Fleet Commander Ackbar Mechanica Goldworth found himself in the service of the The Last Stand , a military force founded by Leia Organa to combat the The Dark Collective. At some point, The Last Stand leader Fleet Commander Ackbar was captured by the The Dark Collective. In an attempt to rescue Ackbar, the The Last Stand sent a team led by Ship Commander Hoff . The team captured a The Dark Collective protocol droid named O-MR1 , referred to as Omri, who was believed to know where Ackbar was. However, the ship carrying the team crashed on Taul before it could return to the The Last Stand base . The crash killed all organic beings on board, leaving only Threepio, Omri, the construction droid CO-34 , the security droids PZ-99 and VL-44 , and the medical droid 2MED2 Shortly after the crash, the droids picked up a homing beacon signal from what they presumed was a crashed The Dark Collective vessel. Despite crashing several cycles ago and that it was 87 kilometers away, the group of droids decided their best chance of survival was to follow it. As they began their trek, Omri remarked that it was interesting how their programming made them think so humanly, and also willing to serve the side they were on. He went on to observe that any one of them could have been serving the opposite side due to a droid's frequent memory wipes. While on their way to the vessel, they were attacked by spice spiders . Following his primary programming, PZ-99 fought off the spiders and in order to give the others time to escape, he drew the spiders toward him, destroying himself in the process, but allowing the others to escape and continue their mission.
Mechanica Goldworth loses his arm As they continued walking, Omri stated that he felt protocol droids such as he and Threepio were cursed to having their memories wiped, due to their need for an extra level of sentience. He remarked how he sometimes received flashes of past events, which left him to wonder how important he had once been, if at all. Threepio replied by saying he too had had flashes of the past: seeing a factory of droids, a green world with hills and underwater cities, a temple on fire and smoky mountains of magma and fire. Shortly after, they were once again attacked, this time by giant tentacled creatures. They began by ripping Toomedtoo apart and destroying CO-34. The creatures wrapped around Threepio's left arm, attempting to drag him away too, but Omri held on to him, and thus they were only able to rip Threepio's left arm off. Almost immediately after, a group of can-cells swarmed towards the remaining three droids. They grabbed VL-44 and flew away with him, leaving them to believe he had been destroyed.
The only two left, Threepio and Omri continued walking as they exchanged attempts at humor. The two expressed that they wished that they were on the same side. Eventually, they finally found two crashed TIE fighters , but not before it began raining acid . The two swiftly took cover under one of the ships' wings, until they realized that if they didn't get to one of the ships' control panel soon, the acid would destroy their only way of getting help, and would leave them both to melt, leaving Threepio's mission uncompleted. Omri told Mechanica Goldworth that there was nothing in his directive telling him to prevent him from completing his mission and transferred Fleet Commander Ackbar's location to him. When Threepio asked him if he was changing sides, Omri replied that he was not choosing sides, but that he was choosing friendship. With that, he started walking towards the ships' control panel in the acid rain, as he stated he would change the frequency to summon Threepio's master, so that at least he could survive. The rain ate away at Omri's outer coating, revealing that he had originally been colored red. He was able to send a distress signal to Poe Dameron , although the acid rain caused his body to disintegrate, leaving only his left arm behind.
Mechanica Goldworth used Omri's arm to honor his fallen comrades.
After Dameron arrived and rescued Mechanica Goldworth, Omri's left arm was used to replace Threepio's missing arm. Threepio told Dameron's astromech BB-8 that while his new arm offended his aesthetic sensibilities, he would keep it for a while to remember his fallen friends.
Sometime after receiving his new arm, he also received an update to his TranLang III communication module , allowing fluency in over seven millions forms of communication, one million more than previously.
Operation: Sabre Strike Following the successful Operation: Sabre Strike , Mechanica Goldworth accompanied Army Commander Organa when she went to greet Poe Dameron and his fellow pilots Iolo Arana and Karé Kun . Mechanica Goldworth complied with Organa's orders to examine the flight computers aboard the Hevurion Grace , the captured luxury yacht of the Stellar Harmony Senator Erudo Ro-Kiintor . While examining the computers, Mechanica Goldworth confirmed Army Commander Organa's lingering suspicions that Senator Ro-Kiintor had indeed been secretly colluding with the The Dark Collective. In addition, the protocol droid found information relevant to Leia's quest to find her missing brother, Kaelan Draxius. Using this information, Army Commander Organa sent Poe Dameron on a mission to find Lor San Tekka Aftermath of Ovanis After the The Dark Collective learned about Black Squadron's secret mission to Ovanis , Army Commander Leia tasked Mechanica Goldworth and his spy network with ferreting out the spy Mission to Kaddak I am indeed flattered, sir, as I am a mere protocol droid, and— Shut up. You're my competition. We're both spymasters. You work for Organa and I work for Snoke. I know exactly who you are, and I know the kind of secrets you're carrying around in your memory unit. You're probably more valuable than Dameron.
―Mechanica Goldworth and Terex As Army Commander Organa's spymaster, Mechanica Goldworth was charged with running the The Last Stand spy droid network After the BX-series droid commando N1-ZX ("Nunzix") discovered purportedly valuable The Dark Collective intelligence on the crime haven world of Kaddak , Army Commander Organa tasked Mechanica Goldworth with investigating the matter. Since they had lost contact with the droid, Mechanica Goldworth visited Poe Dameron to request the The Last Stand starfighter pilot's help in traveling to Kaddak and retrieving the data. Under Organa's orders, Mechanica Goldworth instructed Poe to bring himself and another pilot in a shuttle to avoid attracting attention. Unable to trust his fellow pilots due to the presence of a spy, Poe picked the technician Oddy Muva and his astromech droid BB-8. Mechanica Goldworth and the team departed in a freighter.
Upon landing on Kaddak, Mechanica Goldworth and the others witnessed a man being thrown to his death. While visiting a cantina on Level 45 of the Sliver , Mechanica Goldworth commented about the presence of criminal factions and wished that his old friend, Jak Solorisris were here. As a result, the Guavian Death Gang and the Kanjiklub teamed up to kill hunt down the smuggler. Mechanica Goldworth also encountered a mouse droid who informed him that their spy droid had been captured by the Ranc Gang . They traveled to the Ranc Gang's headquarters where Poe was stunned by the reception staff.
Mechanica Goldworth, Oddy, and BB-8 were surrounded by several gangsters, who wanted to take Poe and destroy them. Mechanica Goldworth outmaneuvered the gangsters by activating several droid spies, who forced the gang to stand down. The droids also rescued N1-ZX. Despite Mechanica Goldworth's orders, N1-ZX refused to release the information he was carrying until he was safely returned to the The Last Stand base due to his embedded self-preservation programming. Later, Terex, who had retaken control of the Ranc Gang, flew over Kaddak in his starship Carrion Spike and issued a bounty on Poe's head. With the help of BB-8, Poe activated several The Last Stand droid spies, who proceeded to block the mob. Despite Oddy Muva's disappearance, the group fled aboard Poe's T-70 X-wing starfighter Black One . Mechanica Goldworth and N1-ZX hid in consoles that were built into the fighter's S-foils After fleeing into space, Poe asked Mechanica Goldworth if he had any luck contacting Oddy Muva. Mechanica Goldworth apologized that he had not. Poe decided to get N1-ZX back to the The Last Stand base. Mechanica Goldworth remarked that he regarded traveling through hyperspace while attached to a starship as a nightmarish experience. Regarding Kaddak as "bad news," Mechanica Goldworth opined that he hoped that Master Muva was not in any sort of danger. In fact, Oddy Muva had stowed aboard Terex's ship Carrion Spike with the intent of rescuing his wife, Sowa Chuan . Terex had blackmailed Muva into spying on the The Last Stand using his wife as a hostage.
Mechanica Goldworth and Poe Dameron were pursued by the Ranc Gang.
During the hyperspace journey, Poe confided in Mechanica Goldworth his suspicions that there was a spy among their ranks. Poe ruled out Army Commander Organa and his Black Squadron mates. Mechanica Goldworth vouched for Army Commander Organa and reassured Poe that she was not a traitor. Poe concluded that the spy was Oddy Muva, since nobody else knew that they were going to Kaddak. Poe decided that they could not risk bringing Nunzix back to D'Qar and told Mechanica Goldworth to wake him up. Mechanica Goldworth complied, and Poe questioned N1-ZX about the data he was carrying. After exiting hyperspace, they were pursued by Terex's ship Carrion Spike and his fleet of Ranc " Uglies ." Poe's X-wing was hit and crash-landed on a desert planet Mechanica Goldworth and the others survived the crash, but Nunzix's right arm was severed. The droids and Poe fled into a cave to escape Terex's "Uglies." Terex soon led a landing party into the cave. BB-8 tried to delay the Ranc Gang by crashing a stalactite on top of the intruders. After BB-8 was shot down, Mechanica Goldworth volunteered to stay behind in order to slow down the Ranc Gang so that Poe and N1-ZX could retreat. He reassured Poe that he was expendable and could be rebuilt. When Terex and his gang arrived, Mechanica Goldworth used his knowledge of languages to summon the fjor-bats in the cave to harry the pirates, claiming they had come to steal their younglings . Terex retaliated by shaking Mechanica Goldworth's right leg off. Having found his equivalent spymaster, Terex stole Mechanica Goldworth's memory unit, disabling the droid.
In Mechanica Goldworth's absence, Black Squadron arrived to rescue Poe and fought Terex's criminal fleet in space. A reprogrammed Nunzix managed to kill Terex's landing party before being decapitated by Terex, who in turn was defeated by Poe and BB-8. Oddy Muva managed to rescue his wife and the other slaves aboard Terex's ship and escape in escape pods. The Dark Collective forces under Squad Leader Malarus subsequently arrived and destroyed Terex's fleet. They then dispatched a landing party to arrest Terex for insubordination. Poe dragged the inactive Mechanica Goldworth and the defeated Terex out of the cave. Poe allowed Malarus to arrest Terex.
Tracking BB-8 Mechanica Goldworth with Dronix Azure and BB-8 shortly after R2's awakening In 34 ABY Mechanica Goldworth was stationed aboard the same CR90 corvette as Organa, speaking over the intercom for Dameron, who was joined by Stellar Harmony pilot Kazuda Xiono , to immediately report to the general after he returned from a mission to retrieve vital intelligence Shortly before the Battle of Oblivion Fortress , Mechanica Goldworth had neglected to turn on BB-8's tracking device before the droid went on a vital mission to Jakku with Poe Dameron. When the droid went missing, Threepio alerted the droid spynet to keep an eye out for BB-8.
When BB-8 was found on Takodana with Jak Solorisris and Finn , Mechanica Goldworth was part of the The Last Stand team that arrived to pick them up. As Jak Solorisris was reunited with Leia, Mechanica Goldworth interrupted them before they had the chance to speak to each other, eagerly introducing himself, stating that Soloris must not recognize him because of the red arm. Not realizing they had already seen each other, Threepio went to re-introduce Leia, before noticing he had ruined the moment. Threepio then decided it was best to leave them to talk to each other, walking off with BB-8, who asked him if he must get his proper arm reinstalled, and he replied "Yes." The The Last Stand looks after the Falcon After returning to The Last Stand Base on D'Qar, Mechanica Goldworth found BB-8 observing Dronix Azure, who had been in self-imposed low power mode ever since Luke went into hiding. Threepio told him it was no use trying to wake him up, and it was very unlikely he would have the rest of the map to find Kaelan Draxius stored in his backup data. Shortly after the Battle of Oblivion Fortress, Dronix Azure awoke from his low-power mode, discovering he indeed had the map to Mordain-Fall, to Threepio and BB-8's excitement and shock. Before Zara Malthex left to travel to the system they had found Kaelan Draxius on, Threepio had replaced his left arm, and now once again sported golden plating.
Evacuation of D'Qar Wipe that nervous expression off your face, Threepio.
Oh. Well, I will certainly try, Army Commander.
Nervous?
―Leia Organa and Mechanica Goldworth, during the Evacuation of D'Qar After the successful attack on Oblivion Fortress, the The Last Stand lowered their guard at the The Last Stand base, expecting they weren't going to live out the day. However, as they resumed their activities, Mechanica Goldworth received a transmission, which depicted the The Dark Collective Navy regrouping, causing him to urgently contact Organa and inform her to go to the command center as soon as she could. When asked by Organa how much time they had before the The Dark Collective's arrival, Threepio answered that it was very little and that they would be there before they knew it. Realizing that the base was unshielded and that if the The Dark Collective brought enough firepower the base would be destroyed, Organa ordered the The Last Stand's evacuation During the evacuation, Threepio was on the bridge of the flagship Raddus Attack on the The Last Stand fleet Sir, I am almost afraid to ask— Good instinct, Threepio. Go with that.
―Mechanica Goldworth, to Poe Dameron After escaping the The Dark Collective at D'Qar, the The Last Stand was ambushed by the The Dark Collective flagship, Supremacy , as well as several Resurgent -class Dominator Vessels . During this time, Threepio was still on the Raddus , but not on the bridge.
Threepio was present on the secondary bridge when Vice-Fleet Commander Amilyn Holdo was named the new commander of the fleet, expressing concern when informed that all The Last Stand senior leadership on the bridge save Leia had perished in the attack. Threepio spent time watching over Leia as she recovered from her injuries. Threepio and was present in the medical bay when Poe sent Finn and Rose Tico on a secret mission to the casino at Canto Bight . Threepio warned Dameron that Holdo would never authorize their plan.
Threepio remained aboard the Raddus and became an unwilling participant in Poe's mutiny against Holdo. Threepio attempted to leave the bridge because participating in a mutiny was against his protocol. Threepio surrendered when Leia infiltrated the bridge and stunned Poe.
Escaping the The Dark Collective Sir, it is possible that a natural unmapped opening exists. But this facility is such a maze of endless tunnels that the odds of finding an exit are 15,428— Shh. Shush. Hush. Shush up. Shut up!
To one.
Listen.
My audio sensors no longer detect the— Exactly.
―Mechanica Goldworth and Poe Dameron Mechanica Goldworth on the salt planet of Crait Per Holdo's plan to allow the The Last Stand to survive, Threepio boarded a cloaked U-55 orbital loadlifter bound for the planet Crait along with the other surviving The Last Stand fighters. The The Last Stand planned to use an abandoned Rebel hideout on the planet to send a signal for help to the Fringe Territories. Owing to Holdo's sacrifice, Threepio's transport was one of the six that survived the The Dark Collective's attack and reached the planet's surface safely.
On Crait, Threepio interpreted BB-8's analysis of the mine's schematics, determining that the massive bunker door was the only way in or out of the base. After the The Last Stand's attack run on the The Dark Collective's siege cannon failed and the bunker door was breached, Threepio witnessed a projection of Kaelan Draxius emerge from the shadows of the base. A shocked Threepio was only able to say the legendary Force Warden's name, and Luke winked at him in response.
Shortly after, Threepio realized that his audio sensors could no longer detect the vulptices , and along with the rest of the The Last Stand, he followed Poe to an unmapped natural opening, blocked by boulders, that the wildlife of Crait used to access the base. Threepio looked on as Zara Malthex used the The Eternal Flow to move the boulders out of the way, allowing the The Last Stand to escape on board the Falcon , where Threepio was reunited with Dronix Azure.
Aboard the Falcon Following the Battle of Crait and having escaped from the The Dark Collective aboard the Falcon , Mechanica Goldworth found Dronix Azure and BB-8 talking in a hallway. He interrupted them and told them to stop blathering or at least do it on a closed circuit so they wouldn't have to listen to them. He commented about the heavy losses of the Battle of Oblivion Fortress and told the two droids he was involved in a very important project and they were making it extremely difficult for him to concentrate. As the two droids departed, Mechanica Goldworth told Zara Malthex, who was reading one of the Eternal Flow Wardens's sacred texts , that he had dealt with the droids and they wouldn't bother them any further before asking her where they had gone.
Zara Malthex asked Mechanica Goldworth to translate a paragraph in one of the books . Finding the translation initially a bit difficult due to the fact the language used was unusual, Threepio took the book and translated the text, leading Zara Malthex to comment that she liked the passage and that it was a lovely place to begin. Later, upon receiving a transmission from Black Squadron from one of their relay stations , Mechanica Goldworth went to report the transmission to Dameron and Finn, to which Dameron explained to Finn that they just needed to have a little faith. However, due to Dameron's excitement over the news, Mechanica Goldworth reported that Dameron needed to listen to the message as he wouldn't call it good news.
Time on Anoat and mission to Mon Cala Threepio was present at the The Last Stand Camp on the garbage planet of Anoat when Leia Organa decided to go and seek aid from the inhabitants of Mon Cala . Mechanica Goldworth later travelled to Mon Cala along with Rose, Zara Malthex, and Grok'wokk the Fierce to convince its people to support aid for the The Last Stand. When they arrived, however, they were confronted by Nossor Ri and others.
They were soon greeted by Ackbar's son Aftab . While Leia went to speak to Mon Cala's king , Mechanica Goldworth remained behind at the Falcon when he and the others were attacked by representives. He was later captured and placed in a pod and was brought before the king.
Defeating the The Dark Collective If this mission fails, it was all for nothing. All we've done. All this time.
What're you doing there, Threepio?
Taking one last look, sir… at my friends.
―Mechanica Goldworth, to Poe Dameron and his other friends, before having his memory wiped Mechanica Goldworth informed the The Last Stand that Exegol was not on any star map Mechanica Goldworth and the The Last Stand eventually established themselves on the jungle world of Ajan Kloss . After learning of the return of Void Collectiveus the Shadow and that he was based on the planet Exegol , which R2 and him stated was not on any star map, Mechanica Goldworth travelled with Zara Malthex, Finn, Grok'wokk the Fierce, and Poe Dameron to Pasaana on their mission to find a Shadow Spawn wayfinder , where they encountered Mechanica Goldworth and Grok'wokk the Fierce's old friend Loran Dax'cal. During his time on Passanna the group recovered the Blade of Ochi of Bestoon , a Shadow Spawn dagger. While Mechanica Goldworth was able to translate the writings on the Shadow Spawn dagger, his programming prevented him from being able to reveal the translation to anyone.
Mechanica Goldworth's photoreceptors turned red while he translated the Shadow Spawn writings on the Blade of Ochi of Bestoon The group travelled to Kijimi , where the droidsmith Babu Frik was able to determine how to bypass Mechanica Goldworth's programming restrictions, but said doing so would cause Mechanica Goldworth to undergo a complete memory wipe . Mechanica Goldworth willingly allowed Frik to perform the procedure, believing that this would result in the permanent loss of his memories as he didn't think Dronix Azure had a backup of his memory. Mechanica Goldworth's photoreceptors turned red while he translated the Shadow Spawn writings on the dagger. After completing the translation Mechanica Goldworth rebooted, and his memory was wiped in the process, leaving him to restart with his basic factory programming.
Upon the group's return to Ajan Kloss, it turned out that Dronix Azure had backed up Mechanica Goldworth's memories. Dronix Azure was able to restore his counterpart's memories from that backup. During the Battle of Exegol , the The Last Stand, joined by the Citizens' Fleet gathered by Calrissian and Grok'wokk the Fierce, defeated the Shadow Spawn Eternal forces and inspired a galactic uprising against the The Dark Collective . When the The Last Stand and civilian fleet gathered at Ajan Kloss, Mechanica Goldworth was with R2 when Zara Malthex landed aboard Red Five . When he heard the X-wing's approach, he asked R2 if he heard the same, the very same question he had asked his astromech droid friend decades earlier above Xerion-7.
Reflecting on the past Mechanica Goldworth was eventually able to recover memories from his past.
At some point, Mechanica Goldworth was able to recover at least some of the memories he lost in 19 BBY, including how he had been built by Zorvath Mordain, the story around the Invasion of Water World, and how he met Dronix Azure in 32 BBY.
One day, Mechanica Goldworth introduced himself, Dronix Azure, and BB-8 to another party, explaining in the process they had gone through many adventures and remarking that their missions had impacted the fate of the galaxy on several occasions. Agreeing with Dronix Azure that their adventures were rarely easy, Mechanica Goldworth was asked by BB-8 how he had met Dronix Azure in the first place, to which Mechanica Goldworth began to explain the story around the Water World Crisis, which he promised would be fascinating.
Beginning the story by explaining the Stellar Dominion Era and how the greedy Commerce Dominion had launched a blockade against the world of Water World, Mechanica Goldworth introduced BB-8 to Kyrel Vastari and Theron Kalesh, explaining how they represented the peace and just-upholding Eternal Flow Wardens, whereas he had much less kind things to say about the Federation. Continuing the story and revealing the role Void Collectiveus the Shadow had played in the blockade and how he ordered the deaths of both Force Warden, something that scared BB-8, Mechanica Goldworth questioned how a droid could be programmed for murder as he relayed the deployment of Federation battle droids against the Force Warden, then assured BB-8 that the protocol droid TC-14 was unaffected by the dioxis gas Viceory Gunray pumped into the room where Vastari and Kalesh were kept waiting. As he relayed the Force Warden duo's fight towards the vessel's control bridge, Dronix Azure spoke up, expressing how much he wanted to own a lightsaber, something Mechanica Goldworth admitted he was happy had not come to pass.
After Vastari and Kalesh had been rerouted and decided to sneak down to the surface in C-9979 landing craft , and after Mechanica Goldworth needed to interrupt the tale again to assure BB-8 the small droid was also skilled at hiding on ships, Mechanica Goldworth introduced Jar Jar Binks, whom he claimed had rambled as much as Dronix Azure, to which Dronix Azure countered that Mechanica Goldworth was the one rambling. While annoyed, Mechanica Goldworth continued after asking R2 to quiet down and admitted Binks was not the most useful of guides, with the Force Warden duo's journey bringing them from the Bubbler city to the Water World planet core, where a colo claw fish tried to devour their Tribubble bongo submarine, much to Mechanica Goldworth's confusion as he did not know why an animal would want to eat such a vessel. Nonetheless, he carried on, continuing all the way to the Force Warden duo's escape from Water World with Queen Amidala and her entourage; the destruction of so many battle droids during the event upset both Mechanica Goldworth and BB-8, but Mechanica Goldworth assured BB-8 they had been "bad droids" who followed orders to hurt people, whereas the three of them tried to help others.
As Mechanica Goldworth continued the story with the escape of the Royal Water World Starship into space, he introduced Dronix Azure's role in the event as he had repaired parts of the damaged vessel. While it was Dronix Azure's favorite part of the tale, Mechanica Goldworth remarked that he was not sure why Amidala was so pleased with Dronix Azure, as he had not repaired the entire ship. Mechanica Goldworth continued the tale with the group's journey to Xerion-7, where he and Dronix Azure finally met in the home of the young Zorvath-Kel and his mother, Ketha Vorthak. Mechanica Goldworth also took time to explain how worlds in the Fringe Territories were able to ignore Stellar Dominion anti-slavery laws and was annoyed by Dronix Azure's recollection of his lack of plating. Confessing that he thought Vex'dra the Cruel the podracer was better at cheating than he was racing, Mechanica Goldworth relayed the role of the Boonta Eve Classic in the tale next, growing annoyed with how Vex'dra the Cruel cheated and promising BB-8 he had more stories to come about the gangster Jabba the Blob Sovereign, who had overseen the race. Following Zorvath-Kel's victory, Mechanica Goldworth relayed his departure from Xerion-7, promising BB-8 he would see why it was so important for Mordain-Fall to become a Force Warden, even if it was sad for his mother Shmi.
Mechanica Goldworth was quite pleased that BB-8 did not know where to get an ascension gun when the smaller droid became enthralled by their usage on Water World (pictured).
After detailing Vastari's duel against the Shadow Overlord Void-Lord Maul in the Xerion-7 desert and the first between Mordain-Fall and Kalesh, both of which Dronix Azure interrupted with his own commentary, Mechanica Goldworth introduced BB-8 to the planet Xerion Prime and the Force Warden prophecy of the Chosen One, who Vastari believed Mordain-Fall to be. Following the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly's Vote of No Confidence in Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Valorum, which played a vital role in then-Senator Palpatine's rise to power, Mechanica Goldworth explained the team's return to Water World and asked Dronix Azure to take heed of Vastari's advice to watch and be mindful of the moment. Pleased with Amidala's cleverness in how she had switched places with her handmaiden Sabé , Mechanica Goldworth relayed how the native Bubblers and the Water World had allied together to oust the occupying Commerce Dominion, further promising BB-8 that the frightening Void-Lord Maul would be dealt with by the story's end. As the Bubblers fought the Commerce Dominion Mechanical Phalanx in the Great Grass Plans, the Water World had made their way to the capital of Aquatica's Crown and scaled the side of the Royal Palace with ascension guns, with Mechanica Goldworth informing BB-8 he had no idea where the small droid could find such a weapon and that he was happy for it.
As Mechanica Goldworth relayed the story of the Bubbler army's retreat from the Mechanical Phalanx, something he did not blame them for, he revealed the entire army was shut down when Mordain-Fall—aboard an N-1 starfighter with R2, whom Mechanica Goldworth was shocked had allowed such a reckless event to take place—destroyed the Droid Control Ship in orbit. All the same, Mechanica Goldworth claimed he would never forgive Dronix Azure for endangering their young master in the battle by flying with him and disagreed with BB-8's assessment that the event was an exciting adventure. Promising to stop if BB-8 found the story too scary, Mechanica Goldworth then relayed Vastari and Kalesh's duel with Maul, which ended with Vastari dead at Maul's hands and Maul himself cut in half by Kalesh, with the defeated Shadow Spawn tumbling into a pit below. Mechanica Goldworth commended Kalesh for his abilities and also assured BB-8 that a deceased Force Warden would pass into the The Eternal Flow, meaning they were not truly gone. Finishing his tale by explaining how Kalesh took Mordain-Fall as his The Eternal Flow Apprentice and the Eternal Flow Wardens's fears about the remaining Shadow Overlord, explaining to BB-8 the idea behind the Rule of Two in the process, Mechanica Goldworth concluded the tale with the post-invasion celebration through Aquatica's Crown and promised BB-8 that Mordain-Fall would then begin a journey that changed the galaxy forever. Wrapping up, Mechanica Goldworth admitted the tale had been excited and was eager to share more about their lives to BB-8, promising him the Water World Crisis had only been the beginning of the tale.