Grok'wokk the Fierce Biographical information Homeworld Forest World Born 200 BBY , Forest World Descriptive information Species Forest Giant Gender Male Pronouns He/him Height meters ft , 6 in) Mass kilograms (247 lbs) Hair color Brown Eye color Blue Family information Family Grok'wokk the Fierce's family Parent(s) Attichitcuk Grok'wokk the Fierce's mother Partner(s) Mallatobuck spouse Children Lumpawaroo Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) The Stellar Dominion Kachirho Forest Giant Militia Crimson Dawn Beckett's gang Alliance to Restore the Stellar Dominion Heroes of Yavin Special The Eternal Flows Trackers Unit Moon World strike team Bright Tree tribe (honorary member) Stellar Harmony Jak Solorisris's shipping company The Last Stand I saved him, at least that's what he says, the big fuzzy fool, but really, he saved me. I was on a bad path, and Grok'wokk, he put me straight. Saved my shanks more than once too.
―Jak Solorisris, on Grok'wokk the Fierce Grok'wokk the Fierce , known affectionately to his friends as Grok'wokk , was a Forest Giant male warrior smuggler mechanic pilot , and resistance fighter who fought in the The Phantasm Wars , the Galactic Civil War , the Cold War , and the subsequent The Dark Collective-The Last Stand War . He hailed from the planet Forest World where he was born during the High Stellar Dominion Era and became a Forest Giant military leader. During the The Phantasm Wars, he was captured by Scale Hunter slavers and held captive on Wasskah , but he worked with a fellow captive, Force Warden Squad Leader Vex'tara Nala , to escape. He later commanded Forest Giant forces of the Kachirho Forest Giant Militia during the Battle of Forest World alongside the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion , led by Force Warden Army Commander Zephon . During the battle, one of the last ones of the war, Zephon's clone troopers received Order 66 from the Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow and, with the help of Grok'wokk the Fierce and his fellow Forest Giant Chieftain and Army Commander Tarfful , Zephon escaped Forest World and the destruction of the Eternal Flow Wardens In the years that followed, during the rule of the The Void Imperium , Grok'wokk the Fierce was enslaved by the Empire until he was rescued by Squad Assistant Jak Solorisris , becoming his co-pilot aboard the Stellar Wanderer during a raid on Spice World for Crimson Dawn with Tobias Beckett and Qi'ra . Winning the Falcon from Dax'calnis Balthazar Calrissian , they later worked in the employ of crime lord Jabba the Blob Sovereign until Soloris was forced to dump a shipment of spice to avoid trouble with the Empire, at which point a bounty was placed on their heads. Soon thereafter, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris were hired by The Eternal Flow Adept Theron Kalesh to ferry him, Kaelan Draxius Mechanica Goldworth , and Dronix Azure to Paradise World on a mission vital to the survival of the Alliance to Restore the Stellar Dominion . After finding Paradise World was destroyed , the group was brought aboard the Oblivion Orb , where they helped Princess Leia Organa escape from captivity and return to the Rebel base on Temple World . Though Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris initially chose to leave Temple World and not join the Rebellion, they ended up fighting in the Battle of Yavin and were instrumental in Mordain-Fall's destruction of the Oblivion Orb, a major victory for the Rebellion.
Throughout the war, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris fought the Empire in a number of engagements, including an assault on Cymoon 1 and the battle on Vrogas Vas . Along with Princess Organa and Mechanica Goldworth, they escaped from Echo Base on the planet Ice World after the Empire tracked the Freedom Coalition there. The group sought refuge with Calrissian on Cloud City , but Calrissian betrayed them and turned them over to Malachar the Void , the Supreme Void Lord 's chief enforcer, after his city was threatened. Soloris was frozen in carbonite and Calrissian helped the others escape, but they were too late to save the frozen Soloris from being taken by Boba Fett to Jabba the Blob Sovereign. Grok'wokk the Fierce and Calrissian set off to find Soloris and located him in Jabba's Palace on Xerion-7 , where Grok'wokk the Fierce and his friends saved Soloris and destroyed Jabba. Shortly thereafter, they fought in the Battle of Moon World , where Grok'wokk the Fierce helped destroy the shield generator and allowed the Alliance Fleet to destroy the DS-2 Oblivion Orb II Mobile Battle Station . Void Collectiveus was killed for the first time aboard the battle station , delivering a crippling blow to the Empire.
After Moon World and the rise of the Stellar Harmony , Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris fought to liberate Forest World from the Empire. When the war finally came to a close, Grok'wokk the Fierce returned home to Forest World with his family . After Soloris's son Ben , turned to the dark side and destroyed Mordain-Fall's new generation of Force Warden, Grok'wokk the Fierce reunited with his old friend and the two spent many years as smugglers once more. They lost the Stellar Wanderer and ended up smuggling aboard a ship called the Eravana , but they eventually found the Falcon and, with it, stowaways named Zara Malthex Finn , and the droid BB-8 . The droid had part of a map that led to the exiled Kaelan Draxius, so the group brought the map to the The Last Stand that opposed the The Dark Collective, which had risen from the ashes of the The Void Imperium. Grok'wokk the Fierce soon fought in the assault to destroy Oblivion Fortress , a devastating The Dark Collective superweapon, a conflict in which Soloris lost his life at the hands of his son. After the base was destroyed, Grok'wokk the Fierce joined Zara Malthex in traveling to the planet Ahch-To on the Falcon , where they found Kaelan Draxius. After Soloris's death, Grok'wokk the Fierce often served as the sole pilot of the Falcon , including piloting the ship to aid the The Last Stand during the Battle of Crait Roughly a year after the battle of Crait, Grok'wokk the Fierce was one of the last of the The Last Stand. Having learned of the mysterious return of Void Collectiveus the Shadow, Grok'wokk the Fierce and the crew of the Falcon , now including Poe Dameron, traveled to the planets Pasaana and Kijimi to find a clue to how to find where the Supreme Void Lord was hiding , being reunited with his friend Calrissian in the process. The quest nearly ended in Grok'wokk the Fierce's apparent death, as Zara Malthex, having been revealed to be the Supreme Void Lord's granddaughter through his son, lashed out with dark power during a fight with Vorthak Mal'ion and destroyed a The Dark Collective transport that she had thought Grok'wokk the Fierce had been loaded onto, seemingly killing him.
However, Grok'wokk the Fierce survived and was rescued by the The Last Stand as they continued the quest. Zara Malthex eventually found Exegol during a failed self-exile attempt to protect the galaxy from her becoming a Shadow Spawn, and led the charge during the battle that ensued later on . Zara Malthex finally killed her malevolent grandfather with the help of the returned Korrak Vex'ion in the climax of the battle, while the The Last Stand, joined by the Citizens' Fleet , progressively overpowered the Shadow Spawn Eternal 's fleet , the Final Order , that Void Collectiveus planned to unleash.
Having ultimately destroyed the Shadow Spawn once and for all, the The Last Stand reveled in their victory, but also mourned their losses, including Leia, who had died of natural causes shortly after reaching out to her son and helping him turn back towards the light.
Biography Early life Hey, you're the married one. Find me a human girl with Malla's brains and silky hair and maybe I'll consider it.
―Jak Solorisris, to Grok'wokk the Fierce Grok'wokk the Fierce with his wife Mallatobuck and son Lumpawaroo A Forest Giant male , Grok'wokk the Fierce, nicknamed "Grok'wokk," hailed from Forest World a peaceful planet where he was born in the city of Rwookrrorro one hundred and eighty years before the The Phantasm Wars to Attichitcuk and a female Forest Giant during the High Stellar Dominion Era He was married to a female named Mallatobuck , and had a family to support, including a son named Lumpawaroo During his life, he explored Forest World, including the wildest reaches of its forests, from one pole to the other. His exploration hardened his footpads.
The The Phantasm Wars Meeting Vex'tara Nala It's a Forest Giant!
―Vex'tara Nala on first seeing Grok'wokk the Fierce Grok'wokk the Fierce hides alongside Vex'tara Nala.
At some point during the The Phantasm Wars, a galaxy-spanning conflict between the The Stellar Dominion and the Separatists Grok'wokk the Fierce famously shielded his allies.
Fighting with courage to defend both Forest World and the Stellar Dominion, he served as a combat engineer while other Forest Giant soldiers led the charge in battle.
In 20 BBY he was captured by a Scale Hunter hunting guild led by Garnac ; taken to Island Four on Wasskah to be their prey, his transport was attacked by a trio of Force Warden apprentices—the The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala and the younglings Jinx and O-Mer , also prey of the Scale Hunters.
Grok'wokk the Fierce escaped from the wreckage and followed the trio, with whom he communicated with thanks to Nala's understanding of Shyriiwook , to their hideout. Using his technical expertise and parts from the crashed transport, he constructed a transmitter to contact his people on his nearby homeworld; however, it seemingly failed and an impatient Jinx, supported by O-Mer, decided to lure down and hijack a hunting pod and take the base ship. As persuaded by Nala, Grok'wokk the Fierce joined in their endeavor and raided the Scale Hunter base, only to be joined by a Forest Giant relief force led by his old friend Army Commander Tarfful —who had received Grok'wokk the Fierce's transmission—as well as bounty hunters Sugi and Seripas . Once all the Scale Hunters had been killed, Grok'wokk the Fierce and the Forest Giants accompanied the young Force Warden to the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime , where they parted ways.
Battle of Forest World Good-bye, Tarfful. Good-bye, Grok'wokk the Fierce. Miss you I will.
―Zephon, shortly before his departure from Forest World Link file info Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader Gree, Zephon, and Grok'wokk the Fierce on Forest World During the last days of the war, Deputy Leader Grok'wokk the Fierce was a major player in the Battle of Forest World , overseeing the confrontation between the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion and the invading Separatist Mechanical Phalanx alongside Tarfful and Force Warden Army Commander Zephon , as well as The Eternal Flow Adept Luminara Unduli . Following the implementation of Order 66 , Grok'wokk the Fierce and Tarfful witnessed the assassination attempt on Zephon by Squad Leader Gree and his aide; he helped the Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Master elude the clone troopers and escape from the planet in a Forest Giant escape pod Rise of the Empire Capture Following the reorganization of the Stellar Dominion into the The Void Imperium , Grok'wokk the Fierce saw his people sent to work as slaves or as miners in places such as Spice World or made to serve as science experiments.
A year into the Empire's reign , former The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala, the very same The Eternal Flow-sensitive Grok'wokk the Fierce had met on Wasskah, pondered what had happened to him after reading updates on the state of Forest World, starting to lose her hope that he remained free.
Grok'wokk the Fierce is enslaved along with several other Forest Giants.
At some point, while on the run from Imperial forces, Grok'wokk the Fierce and several other Forest Giants were captured and enslaved by several Scale Hunter slavers.
Like them, he was forced into slavery, working to cut the wroshyr trees in order to feed the Imperial Army Grok'wokk the Fierce temporarily escaped but was turned over to the Empire by a back-stabbing and greedy Kowakian monkey-lizard bounty hunter.
Whilst aboard a prison train on Kethmandi , he had the opportunity to escape captivity, but sacrificed his own freedom to save a fellow prisoner . He bounced around at other Imperial facilities before eventually being sent to Swamp World Whilst on Swamp World, he came to be referred to as "the Beast." Grok'wokk the Fierce also learned that the Imperials were trying to sell him off as a pit fighter.
Meeting Jak Solorisris Grok'wokk the Fierce was kept in filthy conditions on Swamp World What's your name, anyway?
Grok'wokk the Fierce, son of Attichitcuk.
All right. Well, you're gonna need a nickname, 'cause I ain't saying that every time.
―Jak Solorisris and Grok'wokk the Fierce In 10 BBY , after Jak Solorisris was denounced as a deserter by Tobias Beckett , a criminal impersonating an Imperial officer, his commanding officer decided to execute him by giving him to "the beast." While imprisoned in an underground holding cell, Han used his knowledge of Shyriiwook to convince Grok'wokk the Fierce to stage a fight with him after realizing that one of the supports in the cell was weak, and that destroying it would allow them to escape imprisonment . Following their escape, the pair managed to join a reluctant gang Grok'wokk the Fierce, grateful for Soloris's intervention, proclaimed a life debt to the outlaw. Grok'wokk the Fierce thereby became Soloris's lifelong friend.
Meeting Loran Dax'cal Oh, come on, Val. He looks so sincere. Plus, have you ever tried to disinvite a Forest Giant to anything? Not a good idea.
―Rio Durant, in response to Val's distrust of Jak Solorisris and Grok'wokk the Fierce Grok'wokk the Fierce on Agricultural World, armed with an SX-21 pump-action scatter blaster Grok'wokk the Fierce and Han began their outlaw lives working as part of pirate Tobias Beckett's crew . The group were hired by Crimson Dawn to steal a train car of refined coaxium on Agricultural World . However, they failed due to the intervention of Enfys Nest and the Cloud-Riders , and Soloris's decision to drop the cargo. Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce promised Dryden Vos of Crimson Dawn an equivalent shipment that they would obtain unrefined by making the notorious Spice World Run . Vos sent Qi'ra , who had become his top lieutenant, with them.
Knowing they would need a fast ship to transport the coaxium before it degraded and exploded, Qi'ra introduced the pair to Loran Dax'cal . Soloris played Calrissian in a game of " Twin Worldn Spike sabacc , with the stakes being Calrissian's YT-1300 light freighter , the Stellar Wanderer . Soloris lost the game, regardless, Calrissian agreed to personally pilot the Falcon for the job in return for a cut of the profits.
The Spice World Run "Since when do you know how to fly?" "190 years old?" "You look great!" ―Jak Solorisris and Grok'wokk the Fierce Grok'wokk the Fierce, Soloris, Qi'ra, Calrissian, and Beckett stole the unrefined coaxium from Spice World during a slave riot instigated by Calrissian's navigational droid, L3-37 . During the escape, Soloris flew the Falcon , with Grok'wokk the Fierce as his copilot, for the first of many times. Because the crew stole the coaxium fuel as unrefined, it was necessary to make the escape from Spice World to the refinery on Desert World in record time, prompting Soloris to plot a shorter, and much more dangerous course through the maelstrom that surrounded Spice World and near a gravity well called the Maw , reducing the typical distance required from 20 to 12 parsecs.
Desert World Big stuff, you're coming with me.
―Tobias Beckett commandeers Grok'wokk the Fierce Beckett takes Grok'wokk the Fierce captive.
Upon reaching Desert World and refining the coaxium, the crew was confronted by Enfys Nest, who explained to them that the Cloud-Riders were freedom fighters stirred to action by the atrocities committed by Crimson Dawn and other crime syndicates, not pirates. Soloris devised a plan to give the coaxium to the Cloud-Riders and give Vos fake coaxium, but Vos was prepared for their betrayal because of information given to him by his double-agent in the crew, Beckett.
However, Soloris had double-crossed Beckett and Vos: the containers he left with the Cloud-Raiders were empty, and Nest dispatched the agents Vos sent to retrieve it. The coaxium Soloris, Qi'ra, and Grok'wokk the Fierce brought to Vos was, in fact, genuine. Beckett managed to escape with the coaxium and Grok'wokk the Fierce as a hostage. After Qi'ra betrayed and killed Vos, Soloris found and killed Beckett, but could only watch as he and Grok'wokk the Fierce were left behind, while Qi'ra left Desert World in Vos' yacht to meet Crimson Dawn leader Maul . Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce entrusted the coaxium to Nest, who intended to use it to form a rebellion against the Empire.
The Falcon Grok'wokk the Fierce and Han in their newly won Stellar Wanderer Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce tracked down Calrissian to Numidian Prime Soloris swiped the spare cards Dax'cal held up his sleeve, and challenged him to a rematch of sabacc for the Falcon , a game which Soloris won fairly.
The Falcon instantly became Soloris's most prized possession. With their new-found ship and confidence, Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce began engaging in much more dangerous and risky criminal operations, eventually becoming smugglers.
Around the same time, Grok'wokk the Fierce likewise hung a pair of chance cube dice above the freighter's piloting console.
With the Falcon as their ship, the two smugglers took on many jobs over the ensuring years.
They also came to meet the Tonnika sisters , though their relationship with the siblings soured over the course of their work together, and fellow smuggler Dash Rendar . At some point, Grok'wokk the Fierce also told Tivoche Bilure about what happened to Forest World after the The Phantasm Wars.
The Cordaxian Sea We light enough now , fuzzball?!
―Han to Grok'wokk the Fierce, after the latter dumps Frax out of the Falcon At one point, Jak Solorisris and Grok'wokk the Fierce were transporting two tons of Cordaxian ore on Odona , with the help of Frax , a Kajain'sa'Nikto . They were being pursued by the Empire, and Frax, who was worried about being put in an Imperial prison, pulled a blaster on Han. Grok'wokk the Fierce did a barrel roll with the Stellar Wanderer , knocking Frax out of the ship entirely. They successfully escaped the Empire and Odona, but left Frax behind.
Bounty hunted Dropping Jabba's cargo Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce were later smuggling some Imperial cargo for Jabba the Blob Sovereign when they were stopped by an Imperial blockade . They started being chased by several TIE fighters, and they were faced with a choice: surrender, or drop the Imperial cargo. Soloris chose to drop the cargo, and the cargo was dropped right in the path of the pursuing TIE fighters, destroying both. Without being pursued, Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce flew down to the nearby planet , the Falcon heavily damaged.
Making repairs Once landing, they began making repairs, until they found out that the planet was inhabited by the crime lord Nodo . Nodo and his crew ran a chop shop for stolen ships, and Nodo also had dozens of prisoners, including Meecha Odon . Soloris pretended to be Jabba, and convinced Nodo to have his crew fix the Falcon . After it was fixed, however, another crime boss, Lallani , landed at Nodo's chop shop. Lallani had heard Jabba was there, and wanted to capture him.
Freeing the prisoners A battle broke loose, and in the chaos, Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce freed Odon and the other prisoners. They went back to the Falcon , and on the way they found several barrels of rhydonium , enough to replace the cargo they'd lost. However, Grok'wokk the Fierce convinced Soloris that Odon and the prisoners needed the fuel more, and Soloris relented. They gave up the fuel they desperately needed, so that Odon could use the fuel to pay for her and the other prisoners' way home.
Versus the Mist Hunter Grok'wokk the Fierce fighting Zuckuss In 9 BBY as they were unloading the rhydonium from the Falcon at Valtos space port Zuckuss and 4-LOM attacked them. They revealed that Han and Grok'wokk the Fierce had a bounty on their head, put there by Nodo himself. Zuckuss managed to put Han into the Mist Hunter 's hold, but Grok'wokk the Fierce attacked Zuckuss in order to rescue Soloris and Beris Ford , Zuckuss's other prisoner, from the bounty hunters. He placed Beris into a barrel, despite his protests before he and Soloris took a speeder back to the Falcon . However, Zuckuss and 4-LOM caught up with, but Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris were able to use several barrels to knock them down. As they flew Falcon away from Valtos , Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris ejected Beris' barrel into space with a homing beacon to notify his family. However, they were pursued by Zuckuss, 4-LOM, and their ship, the Mist Hunter Grok'wokk the Fierce manned one of the Falcon s laser cannons to fight off the Mist Hunter . Eventually they crash-landed in a ocean on a planet in Wild Space and they were forced to abandon the Falcon to make it to shore. After the Mist Hunter crashed, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Han then Zuckuss behind. They found an energy projector that was transmitting a immobilizer beam Working together Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce climbed the projector, but were confronted by Zuckuss who tossed spears at them. When Grok'wokk the Fierce go to the top, he was able to turn off the beam by destroying it's power source. However, small droids were activated and wanted to destroy them and all organic life in the galaxy.
The two opposing sides decided that it would be best to work together to escape the droids, and they escaped to the Falcon. Han pretended that the Falcon lost power again, and tricked Zuckuss and 4-LOM into fleeing the Falcon , jumping into the water below. Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce left the planet, leaving the two bounty hunters behind.
Mission to Ushruu False pretenses At one point, while on Xerion Prime after a smuggling job, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris were approached by Alinka Aloo , the daughter of Sim Aloo . Aloo, wanted to hire them for a job, and requested that they go to her tower . A week later, they went to see her, and she told them that she had a tooka -sitting job for Grok'wokk the Fierce, and Soloris was to remain with her. They reluctantly accepted, and Grok'wokk the Fierce went on a cargo ship with the librarian Mayvlin Trillick . But the ship, on autopilot , pulled them into hyperspace . During the unwilling flight, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Trillick were told by Aloo that the real job was to steal an unknown artifact from a temple on the planet Ushruu . Aloo revealed that she had had taken Soloris prisoner, and wouldn't release him unless the job was completed. With no choice but to continue, Grok'wokk the Fierce continued the job, along with Trillick. Before the ship reached Ushruu, the two bonded, as Trillick told Grok'wokk the Fierce about how her planet had been ravaged by the Empire, and she was also being blackmailed by Aloo, who had one of her peoples' sacred texts. The two dealt with the tookas and the cargo ship's cargo droid, K-2SB, who was actually K-2SO on an undercover mission for Cassian Twin Worldr . Eventually, the ship pulled out of hyperspace.
Acquiring the artifact When they found a place to land, they found dead Scale Hunters, sent to find the artifact by Janus Greejatus . Trillick and Grok'wokk the Fierce proceeded to travel towards the location of the temple, bringing K-2SO along. Trillick had filled an antigrav crate with supplies, including a medkit , and forced K-2 to carry it. The group faced several Twin Worldn hounds , which they accidentally trapped within their cargo ship. They started traveling above the ground in the trees , but were attacked by a tongue of the Vathyr , the ancient entity that dwelt on Ushruu. It dragged Trillick to the Vathyr itself, but Grok'wokk the Fierce managed to free her. Eventually, they reached the temple, and searched it. They found the artifact, which was an ancient book of dark side teachings, in the temple's library. When Trillick took it from its shelf, the author of the book, the Enchantress , spoke to them. The Enchantress's voice asked who the book was for, and seemed satisfied when she was told it was for Supreme Void Lord Palpatine Saving Han K-2SO stored the book in his chest compartment as they traveled back to the cargo ship. But when they reached the ship, Twin Worldr had arrived. Cassian and K-2 flew away with the book, which Grok'wokk the Fierce and Trillick needed to rescue Soloris and the ancient text. Grok'wokk the Fierce came up with a plan, and he and Trillick flew back to Xerion Prime. They arrived at Alinka's tower, and set free the Twin Worldn hounds that were trapped in the ship's cargo hold free. In the chaos that ensued, Soloris escaped, and the trio flew away in the cargo ship. They went back to the Falcon , and fought many TIE fighters to escape Xerion Prime. Soloris reluctantly agreed to take Trillick back to her home planet of Oktaro Galactic Civil War Oblivion Orb rescue It's okay to care about them. They need our help.
―Grok'wokk the Fierce, to Jak Solorisris Grok'wokk the Fierce and Kalesh discuss a potential business arrangement During one of their smuggling attempts at the time of the Galactic Civil War, the Stellar Wanderer was boarded and the two lost the cargo that they were hauling for their usual employer, Jabba the Blob Sovereign. Arriving at Sandport on Xerion-7 to speak with Jabba about the lost cargo, they sat down in Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina . At the bar, Grok'wokk the Fierce was approached by Ben Kalesh , who was searching for passage for himself, Kaelan Draxius and the droids Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth to Paradise World . Promised 2,000 credits in advance and an additional 15,000 upon arrival to Paradise World, Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce agreed to the commission.
In Docking Bay 94 , Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce found Jabba waiting for them with a crew of hired help.
One of them, the famous bounty hunter Boba Fett , kept an eye on Grok'wokk the Fierce, noting the Forest Giant getting ready for a fight as Soloris spoke with Jabba. Thus, he moved his arm enough to ensure the Forest Giant braids he wore were visible to Grok'wokk the Fierce, which the Forest Giant decided to show no reaction to.
Ultimately, Soloris managed to convince Jabba to give him more time. After a brief firefight with stormtroopers, the Falcon left Xerion-7 with its new passengers, escaping from Imperial vessels before entering hyperspace.
During the hyperspace journey, while Kalesh trained Mordain-Fall in the use of the The Eternal Flow , Grok'wokk the Fierce played a game of dejarik with Dronix Azure, who made a move that Grok'wokk the Fierce disliked. Mechanica Goldworth advised that the move was technically fair, and even chided Grok'wokk the Fierce, at which point Soloris advised them not to anger the Forest Giant because of his species' tendency to pull arms out of their sockets, prompting the two droids to surrender.
Grok'wokk the Fierce, pretending to be an Imperial prisoner.
Upon the Falcon s exit from hyperspace, the group found themselves in a meteor storm produced by the destruction of the planet by the Imperial Oblivion Orb superweapon . The group were soon caught by the tractor beam of the battle station which was still looming in the system, but managed to evade capture by hiding in the Falcon s smuggling compartments. While Kalesh set out to disable the station's tractor beam in order to allow them to escape, Mordain-Fall was told by Dronix Azure that Princess Leia Organa was being held in Detention Block AA-23 , her execution scheduled. They set out to rescue her, with Grok'wokk the Fierce posing as a prisoner of stormtrooper -disguised Mordain-Fall and Soloris. Despite encountering trouble, Grok'wokk the Fierce and the others managed to escape from the Oblivion Orb—except for Kalesh, who had died in a duel with Void-Lord Malachar . The Falcon soon arrived to Temple World , landing on Rebellion's secret base , just as the Oblivion Orb closed in on the moon Temple World What're you looking at? I know what I'm doing.
―Jak Solorisris to Grok'wokk the Fierce Mordain-Fall was hopeful that Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris would join the Rebellion, but Soloris was more concerned with receiving his payment in order to pay his debt to Jabba. Though Grok'wokk the Fierce growled in dissatisfaction at this course of action, the two departed, seemingly leaving the Freedom Coalition on its own to deal with the Oblivion Orb.
At Grok'wokk the Fierce's urging, with Soloris also feeling that he needed to help Mordain-Fall, they would return just in time to protect Mordain-Fall during the Battle of Yavin from Malachar's TIE Advanced x1 , allowing the young pilot to destroy the massive battle station by firing a proton torpedo into its exhaust port.
Grok'wokk the Fierce lets out a triumphant howl after Mordain-Fall and Soloris are awarded medals.
Back on Temple World, Kaelan Draxius and Jak Solorisris were both awarded medals by Organa, while Grok'wokk the Fierce howled in delight during the ceremony The time for celebration was soon over, for Organa asked the Rebels to take a moment of silence to honor and remember all those who had died when Paradise World was destroyed, whereas Army Commander Dodonna announced their need to evacuate Yavin since the Empire was aware of their location.
Grok'wokk the Fierce would be also awarded a medal, and shared a moment of banter between Organa and Soloris, just before they parted ways.
Cyrkon You two play fast and loose.
It's worked so far.
―Caluan Ematt, on Grok'wokk the Fierce and Jak Solorisris's tactics However, before they could depart for Xerion-7 to pay Jabba, Organa would ask Soloris to run an errand for the Rebellion, which Grok'wokk the Fierce convinced him to accept—to rescue Deputy Leader Caluan Ematt from Cyrkon . On the Falcon , the two made their way to the planet, only to find themselves confronted by the Vehement , which they avoided with a false IFF transponder , and landed in Motok . There, they were immediately attacked by some of Jabba's bounty hunters, including Captivator , which prompted Soloris to accuse them of being "Rebels" and set them against ISB Squad Leader Alecia Beck 's garrison.
Grok'wokk the Fierce slipped away with Soloris to the Miss Fortune cantina , where they found their old friend Delia Leighton , to whom they asked about Ematt's location. After she told them their destination and the password, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris rented a V-40 and went into a hotel , where they met Ematt, but were attacked by the bounty hunters again, as Leighton had revealed their location to save Curtis 's life. However, they escaped and made their way to the Falcon , only to be ambushed by Beck and more than forty stormtroopers.
Grok'wokk the Fierce, Soloris and Ematt confronted by Alecia Beck.
The Eternal Flowd to surrender, Grok'wokk the Fierce, Soloris and Ematt were taken into custody, with Beck focusing on Ematt and leaving Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris to the stormtroopers. Unbeknownst to the Imperials, Soloris noticed the Miss Fortune making their way to save them, but with the magnetic field activated, it would be pointless. Once aware of Soloris's intentions, Grok'wokk the Fierce pretended to be angry at Soloris and shoved him, sending him flying into a trooper to grab his E-11 medium blaster rifle and destroy the field generators, flooding the hangar with Cyrkon's toxic gases. Soon enough, the Miss Fortune opened fire at the Imperials, and Grok'wokk the Fierce made his way to the Falcon to start the engines while Soloris helped Ematt and recovered their weapons.
Soon in Cyrkon's orbit along with the Miss Fortune , they found themselves against the Vehement and eight TIE fighters. They engaged the starfighters , defeating several of them, until the Miss Fortune s took a hit that damaged its navicomputer; Grok'wokk the Fierce saw Soloris's nobler side when he decided to cover the 1550-LEX space yacht to make a run for Cyrkon's atmosphere just as the Vehement s tractor beam advanced towards them. They resisted the beam by entering the planet's atmosphere themselves, while Leighton fled, and approached Motok in a dead-engine glide, daring Beck into catching the Falcon at the price of destroying the city with the tractor beam and turning Cyrkon against the Empire. As she desisted, the Falcon began its fall to the ground and the two pilots manually restarted the engines, just in time to avoid crashing into the city and escape.
Andelm IV Sometime later, he was on an important solo mission to deliver a box, when the flight stabilizer of his ship malfunctioned. The Eternal Flowd to crash-land on Andelm IV , Grok'wokk the Fierce went to a city to obtain a replacement and engaged a Besalisk vendor. Their deal was interrupted by a fugitive young girl, Zarro , who tried to sell her stolen speeder bike . The Besalisk, however, refused and tried to betray her to the planet's crime lord, Jaum . Grok'wokk the Fierce stopped him, though, by having the Besalisk sell him the stabilizer. However, he did not have enough credits to buy it. Subsequently, he went to a cantina and played sabacc, successfully doubling his credits. Grok'wokk the Fierce then noticed the girl from before, and helped her hide from Jaum's men.
Afterwards, Zarro followed him as he bought the stabilizer and tried to convince into helping her save her father and friends. Unable to delay his mission, Grok'wokk the Fierce repaired his ship, and changed his mind to leave the planet when Zarro mentioned her people had been enslaved by Jaum. Unknown to Grok'wokk the Fierce and Zarro, Jaum was planning to export the Andelm beetle larvae to the Empire to be processed into Dedlanite , a substance used in the manufacture of blasters To maximize profits, Jaum also planned to sell his slave workforce to the Empire.
The following day, Zarro devised a plan to infiltrate Jaum's mine . She got Grok'wokk the Fierce to search for an open air vent for the slave miners to escape. Meanwhile, Zarro infiltrated the mine by allowing herself to be recaptured. Her plan was to locate a hollowed part of the mine. Keeping in touch by transmitter, Zarro told Grok'wokk the Fierce to find an open air vent. While struggling through the tunnel, the Forest Giant was haunted by memories of his enslavement at the hands of the Scale Hunters. Zarro's escape plan encountered a problem when she was caught by Jaum and his men. After the miners including Zarro's father Arrax objected to Jaum's plan, the gangster ordered his men to execute the miners.
Before Jaum's guards could carry out their execution, Grok'wokk the Fierce snuck up behind them and overpowered them with his bowcaster . After meeting Zarro's father, Grok'wokk the Fierce joined forces with the miners to fight their way out of the mine. He refashioned a rod from a broken-down GNK-series power droid and used it to disable a wheeled battle droid . Shortly later, the Forest Giant knocked out one of Jaum's henchmen with the derelict GNK power droid. Grok'wokk the Fierce eventually found his way to the mine's loading bay, which was full of crates of Andelm beetle larvae. However, Jaum's Shistavanen enforcer Tyvak fired on the incendiary larvae with his blaster, igniting an explosion that created a cave-in.
Despite Tyvak's efforts, Grok'wokk the Fierce and his friends managed to survive the explosion. Part of the Forest Giant's left leg was scorched by fire but Zarro managed to douse it. Grok'wokk the Fierce and his friends then narrowly escaped a swarm of Andelm beetles. Grok'wokk the Fierce managed to used his bowcaster to collapse a girder, temporarily delaying the swarm but denying the miners their only way out in the process. While heading to regroup with the other miners in a different section of the mine, Grok'wokk the Fierce encountered the guard he had knocked out with the GNK power droid. Upon recognizing the guard, he dropped the heavy droid chassis on the man, leaving him behind.
While the miners discussed a way of digging themselves out of the mine, Grok'wokk the Fierce came up with the idea of climbing out vertically through a sinkhole. While skeptical of the Forest Giant's chance of success, the miners and Zarro agreed to support his plan. With much effort, Grok'wokk the Fierce managed to climb through the roots of a dead tree and topple it, creating a pit large enough for all the miners to climb up. Grok'wokk the Fierce then lowered a rope for all the miners to evacuate. Once everyone had reached the surface, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Zarro departed under the pretext of repairing his A-wing starfighter.
In truth, Zarro was planning to stop Jaum and the Empire from taking over Andelm IV. Enlisting Grok'wokk the Fierce's support, they traveled to the planet's spaceport . There, they found a bunker that was inhabited by her blind friend Sevox and his protocol droid I-7 , who served as the "eyes" of the former. After examining Sevox's junkshop, Grok'wokk the Fierce came up with a plan to sabotage Jaum's plot to export Dedlanite to the Empire.
this plan involved fitting a decrepit R5 repair droid with explosives. Sevox thought Grok'wokk the Fierce and Zarro's plan had little chance of success but nonetheless agreed to drop them off at the spaceport. He also offered his bunker as a hiding place for Zarro and her friend.
After shooing away a group of child beggars, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Jaum infiltrated the spaceport disguised as Jaum's new war droid and a hooded alien . They soon discovered that the spaceport was being occupied by several stormtroopers, Scout troopers , and an AT-ST walker . Shortly later, they found Jaum supervising several stormtroopers who were loading crates of dedlanite into an Imperial landing craft . When Jaum demanded that Zarro take off her helmet, Grok'wokk the Fierce opened fire on the gangster and his stormtroopers. After running out of ammunition, he took out the stormtroopers in hand to hand combat.
While Grok'wokk the Fierce exchanged fire with Jaum, Zarro managed to bring the rigged R5 droid " Boomer " aboard the shuttle. Grok'wokk the Fierce then fought with Tyvak but was trapped by the AT-ST walker. The Forest Giant however activated a nearby engine which burned Tyvak alive and knocked out the Imperial walker's right cannon, causing it to topple to the ground. Meanwhile, Jaum managed to escape aboard the landing craft with the dedlanite and "Boomer." The two were overjoyed their plot had succeeded. However, their elation was short-lived and they were soon arrested by scout troopers reporting to the Imperial Squad Leader Kai , the same officer who was interested in Jaum's dedlanite deal.
Per Squad Leader Kai's orders, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Zarro were transported up to Kai's Void Cruiser in orbit above Andelm IV. On the way up, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Zarro managed to overpower their stormtrooper captors aboard the Imperial shuttle . After landing, Grok'wokk the Fierce knocked out an Imperial RA-7 protocol droid that Kai had sent to negotiate their surrender. After knocking out the remaining stormtroopers clinging to his body, Kai agreed to listen to Zarro.
Zarro made up a story that Jaum was a fraudster who had come to scam Kai. She also claimed that he was a rebel spy and that he did not have a mining operation. To back up her story, Zarro told him that Jaum's "droid" "Boomer" was rigged with explosives. Shortly later, Jaum arrived carrying samples of dedlanite. Shortly later, Boomer exploded, destroying the landing craft and damaging the Dominator Vessel's force-field. In the meantime, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Zarro managed to escape on a TIE/sa bomber . Despite Zarro accidentally activating a thermal detonator which destroyed the ship's left-wing, they managed to crash-land the bomber on Andelm IV.
While Grok'wokk the Fierce turned down Zarro's request to stay behind with her people, he still gave her a hug and awarded her a gold medallion he had received for his services during the Battle of Yavin . After departing as friends, Grok'wokk the Fierce traveled on his A-wing to his homeworld of Forest World. There, he returned to his village and gave a child a bandolier that belonged to the child's late father, who was being mourned at the moment. Shortly later, Grok'wokk the Fierce departed aboard the Stellar Wanderer . Meanwhile, Jaum was imprisoned by Squad Leader Kai, who was disgusted by Jaum's greed and his alleged scam. He had the gangster tortured by his IT-O Interrogator Cymoon 1 Grok'wokk, stand down! Do not fire! You take a shot at Malachar the Void and the whole factory will be on alert!
Are you crazy? Grok'wokk the Fierce if you have a shot at Malachar I order you to take it! Forget about us! Killing him is more important! Do you hear me Grok'wokk? Take the shot! Now!
―Jak Solorisris and Princess Vex'ara Organa Grok'wokk the Fierce watches the team from the vantage point.
Grok'wokk the Fierce took part in an assault on Weapons Factory Alpha , on the moon Cymoon 1 , alongside the usual team—Soloris, Organa, Mordain-Fall, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure—, with Soloris posing as the envoy of Jabba the Blob Sovereign to enter the factory, Mordain-Fall and Organa disguised as his bodyguards, along with Dronix Azure. Separately, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Mechanica Goldworth landed the Falcon in the refuse fields surrounding the factory, with the latter going to a vantage point to observe through the scope of his sniper rifle how Soloris engaged Overseer Aggadeen and entered the facilities.
Unexpectedly, though, Malachar the Void arrived on a Lambda -class T-4a shuttle, and Grok'wokk the Fierce contacted Soloris, telling him to stand down, for firing on the Shadow Overlord would put the entire moon on alert, but Organa gave the order to take the shot. Grok'wokk the Fierce consented and fired, but Malachar sensed danger and deflected the first shot with his lightsaber. He continued shooting, but the Shadow Overlord had lifted two stormtroopers into the air using the The Eternal Flow and used them as human shields, only for him to topple the building Grok'wokk the Fierce was perched upon. Though it collapsed, the Forest Giant escaped from the wreckage. Now being hunted down, Grok'wokk the Fierce lost contact with the team as he made his way to the Falcon Grok'wokk the Fierce unleashes his rage against the intruding aliens.
When he arrived, he discovered Mechanica Goldworth in pieces strapped and the freighter being dismantled by tentacled aliens . Angered, Grok'wokk the Fierce chased the scavenger away, recovered the protocol droid and made contact with Soloris, who along Organa had hijacked an AT-AT and were escaping from Malachar. Despite the lengthy time he needed to fix the ship, Grok'wokk the Fierce repaired enough of the Falcon s damage to pilot it to the team's position, where he extracted them and many of the slaves Mordain-Fall had freed. As they began their retreat from Cymoon 1, Organa took over the controls instead of a delirious Soloris, so that Grok'wokk the Fierce could repair the hyperdrive, which he managed to do, so that Organa could make the jump into lightspeed and escape a blockade of Dominator Vessels.
Smuggler World The mighty Grok'wokk the Fierce. I must say…I expected better. You hear so much about the big, scary Forest Giants . But you're really not so tough after all, are y— ―Dengar underestimates Grok'wokk the Fierce Within two days, the Stellar Wanderer rendezvoused with the Alliance Fleet , where Soloris was treated for his injuries and Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris went on to better repair the Falcon on an Alliance Nebulon-B frigate , when the Twin Worldn noted that it had been a miracle that the ship had flown with Grok'wokk the Fierce's rushed repairs, prompting an annoyed reply from the Forest Giant, while they strived to repair the Falcon The need for new parts prompted Soloris to go on a mission with Organa, leaving Grok'wokk the Fierce behind with the freighter.
However, when he heard that Mordain-Fall had been captured by Grakkus the Blob Sovereign on Smuggler World , he volunteered for the rescue mission before Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Mon Mothma , and Army Commanders Dodonna and Gial Ackbar of the Alliance High Command . Taking Mechanica Goldworth with him, Grok'wokk the Fierce took the Falcon to the moon, wherein the droid did the talking, and the Forest Giant used more violent means to interrogate the criminals in search of Mordain-Fall. It was a Horned Warrior bartender who told them of Mordain-Fall's location on Grakkus's palace and his direction, and Grok'wokk the Fierce and Mechanica Goldworth set out to Mordain-Fall's encounter.
Just as Grok'wokk the Fierce and Mechanica Goldworth were planning to break into Grakkus's palace, they were attacked by Dengar . Grok'wokk the Fierce fought Dengar until Soloris and Organa arrived, and Soloris shot Dengar in the back.
With Dengar distracted by Soloris, Grok'wokk the Fierce used the opportunity to throw Dengar off the building. Grok'wokk the Fierce, Soloris, and Organa then went to save Luke from Grakkus, only to find several stormtroopers in the way. Dronix Azure acquired a few lightsabers from Grakkus, and they used them to fight the enemies. After that, they fled Smuggler World.
Vrogas Vas The smuggler Jak Solorisris has an associate. Or a pet, I'm not sure. It's a… furry creature of some sort… A Forest Giant Yes! His name is Chew…Chew something. Chew…bacca?
RRRRRRWWWWWGGHHHHH!
―0-0-0, Doctor Aphra, and Grok'wokk the Fierce Later, when Kaelan Draxius and Malachar the Void crash-landed on Vrogas Vas , Organa approached Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce for help in defeating Malachar and saving Luke.
While Jak Solorisris faced off against Doctor Chelli Aphra , Grok'wokk the Fierce ripped the arms off of Triple-Zero , a homicidal protocol droid. But Triple-0 managed to inject a lethal dose of Mandalorian xenotox into Grok'wokk the Fierce, leveling the playing field. But before Triple-0 could kill Grok'wokk the Fierce, Luke came to the rescue, further damaging Triple-Zero. Grok'wokk the Fierce, Luke, Jak Solorisris, and Dronix Azure then all fled from BT-1 , a homicidal astromech droid.
As they all went to save Leia from Malachar, they were attacked by Krrsantan , who was working alongside Aphra. Even though he was feeling the effects of Triple-Zero's poison, Grok'wokk the Fierce started fighting Krrsantan.
Grok'wokk the Fierce was initially losing the fight, but when Dronix Azure injected him with the antidote to the poison, Grok'wokk the Fierce started winning the fight.
However, Krrsantan was defeated when he attacked Mechanica Goldworth, who electrocuted Krrsantan. When they returned to the Falcon, they were able to capture Aphra.
The Harbinger Later, Grok'wokk the Fierce assisted the rebellion in commandeering the Dominator Vessel Harbinger Grok'wokk the Fierce jettisoned the ship's reactor just before it exploded, creating the illusion that the ship was destroyed. He, along with many other Rebels, worked on keeping the ship afloat while flying it towards Tureen VII When Task The Eternal Flow 99 infiltrated the Harbinger to stop them from breaking the Empire's blockade of Tureen VII , Grok'wokk the Fierce fought one of the elite stormtroopers, Zuke Since the fight took place in the engine room, Grok'wokk the Fierce was able to throw Zuke into the engine's machinery, which brought the engine back to full power. When the Rebels broke the Imperial siege above Tureen VII, they all fled except for Mechanica Goldworth, who was captured by SCAR Squadron.
Skorii-Lei At some point, Organa was nearly captured by the Empire while transporting important information on Skorii-Lei , but escaped with the help of an inhabitant of the planet named Pash Davane . Soloris, Mordain-Fall, and Grok'wokk the Fierce helped the two escape in the Stellar Wanderer The Screaming Citadel Hrrrrrrgggh!
I know, Grok'wokk, and I'm sorry. But if Sana is right and Luke's on Ktath'atn, we can't risk bringing a Forest Giant with us.
―Grok'wokk the Fierce and Jak Solorisris When Mordain-Fall left with Aphra for the Screaming Citadel , and Soloris, Organa, and Starros were preparing to go rescue him, Grok'wokk the Fierce attempted to go with them, but wasn't allowed, because the people of Ktath'atn were extremely hostile towards Forest Giants.
The Blob Sovereign Run Later, Soloris was asked by Mothma to transport Grakkus to a Rebel holding facility in the catacombs of Akiva . During the trip, Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce were attacked by several TIE fighters. Grok'wokk the Fierce manned the Stellar Wanderer s turret while Soloris flew, but they had to give up and land on a nearby asteroid, since the Falcon s hyperdrive was damaged. Grakkus killed the stormtroopers that boarded the ship, and then attacked Soloris, but in doing so, let information regarding the planet Mountain World slip out. Soloris electrocuted Grakkus, and they continued on to Akiva.
Odona At one point, Soloris and Organa were on Odona looking for a new spot for a Rebel base. They were attacked by Frax, and Organa was grazed by a blaster bolt. Grok'wokk the Fierce helped her into the Falcon, and they fled.
Ice World Laugh it up, fuzzball!
―Jak Solorisris, in response to Grok'wokk the Fierce laughing at him Link file info Grok'wokk the Fierce captured by a wampa.
Now full-fledged members of the Freedom Coalition, and following a dangerous run-in with bounty hunter on Stellar Dominion World , Grok'wokk the Fierce accompanied Soloris to Ice World , for they had been assigned to the newly-established Echo Base , where Grok'wokk the Fierce would be effecting repairs on the Stellar Wanderer to pay their debt to Jabba once and for all.
While at Echo Base, Grok'wokk the Fierce was assigned to digging corridors by Organa. On one of these assignments, Grok'wokk the Fierce dug into a cave occupied by a wampa . The beast captured him and held him hostage. After not checking in, Leia and Artoo started looking for him. They found a scared Grok'wokk the Fierce clutched in the hands of the sleeping wampa. Organa's attempted rescue of Grok'wokk the Fierce ended with the wampa waking up. The Forest Giant ran to repair the door, which led to the uncovered cave with Artoo, while Leia acted as a distraction. At the last minute, Grok'wokk the Fierce finished his job on the door, and with Organa back inside, he closed it and trapped the woken beast in the cave.
Grok'wokk the Fierce while on Ice World.
Grok'wokk the Fierce's repairs on the Falcon were when Soloris had to venture outside during Ice World's night to rescue Mordain-Fall. Soon afterwards, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris destroyed an Imperial probe droid , but could not prevent it from transmitting information back to the Empire, revealing the location of the hidden Rebel base. The Empire consequently launched an all-out assault on the planet, forcing Grok'wokk the Fierce, Soloris, Organa and Mechanica Goldworth to flee on the Stellar Wanderer However, with the Falcon s damaged hyperdrive, they were unable to leave the system and escape the Imperial blockade, which prompted Soloris to pilot the ship into a nearby asteroid field, hoping that the Imperials would be unwilling to follow them there. Evading several pursuing TIE fighters, they landed the ship inside a cave of a large asteroid, where they hoped to hide from Imperial forces and complete repairs. While waiting inside the cavern, Grok'wokk the Fierce continued to repair the freighter until mynocks attacked it; soon, they realized the cave was in fact the inside of a space slug , forcing them to flee. The Falcon was subsequently attacked by the Void Cruiser Avenger , but with a maneuver devised by Soloris, they were able to avoid the vessel and fled to Cloud City on the gas giant Bespin , where they would request help from Calrissian, an old acquaintance of Han's. Unbeknownst to them, they were followed by the bounty hunter Boba Fett.
Cloud City Grok'wokk, this won't help me! Hey! Save your strength, there'll be another time! The princess—you have to take care of her! Do ya hear me, huh?
―Jak Solorisris Link file info Grok'wokk the Fierce worked to reassemble Mechanica Goldworth while imprisoned.
Upon arrival to Cloud City, the group was welcomed by Calrissian, and spent a few days until the Falcon was repaired. However, they grew increasingly suspicious, especially after Mechanica Goldworth disappeared. Grok'wokk the Fierce took on the task of finding the missing protocol droid, eventually rescuing him from a junk pile. After a scuffle with some Ugnaught workers, he brought the droid back to Organa and Soloris, when Calrissian invited them to enjoy some refreshments. In truth, it was a meeting with Malachar the Void, who had arrived to Cloud City before the Rebel team did and forced Calrissian into a deal to have them imprisoned.
Separated from the others, Grok'wokk the Fierce began to partially reassemble Mechanica Goldworth, when Soloris was escorted back by stormtroopers, having been tortured by Malachar, with Organa. They were eventually brought to Calrissian's carbon-freezing facilities where Soloris was to be frozen in carbonite to test it before Mordain-Fall arrived, for Malachar desired to encase Mordain-Fall in carbonite and present him to the Supreme Void Lord. Though Grok'wokk the Fierce tried to fight, wanting to protect his old friend, Soloris calmed him down, asking him to save his strength for another day. The Forest Giant then relented and allowed himself to be placed in stuncuffs as Soloris was marched off and frozen.
Grok'wokk the Fierce chokes Loran Dax'cal for betraying the group.
As Grok'wokk the Fierce and Organa being escorted to Malachar's ship, Calrissian, who was growing increasingly dissatisfied with Malachar's deal, betrayed the Shadow Overlord and freed the two. Grok'wokk the Fierce, though, was not quick to trust him and reacted violently, choking him. The princess was able to calm him enough for Calrissian to inform them that Boba Fett was about to leave Cloud City carrying the carbonite-frozen Soloris. Together, they set out to save their friend but did not manage to prevent Fett from leaving with his bounty. The team then boarded the Falcon to escape the city, briefly returning to save Mordain-Fall, who had fought and lost a duel on Cloud City with the Shadow Overlord.
Rendezvous Point Delta-Three Anyway, yeah, eight missiles, that'll pack a punch. But even if they all land, they won't take out a Dominator Vessel.
HROOAH!
Master Grok'wokk the Fierce suggests that we do not actually need to destroy an entire vessel, merely the gun emplacements on one of the light cruisers. If this succeeds, the integrity of the cordon will be reduced, and— I understand Shyriiwook, Goldie. I get the idea. Doesn't mean it ain't crazy.
―Loran Dax'cal, Grok'wokk the Fierce, and Mechanica Goldworth After escaping the Empire, Grok'wokk the Fierce argued with Calrissian about pursuing Soloris. The former Baron Administrator refuted Grok'wokk the Fierce’s plan, citing Fett’s involvement, causing the Forest Giant to become angry. Calrissian affirmed his desire to rescue Soloris, proposing instead to intercept Soloris at the palace of Jabba the Blob Sovereign.
Organa, accepting that Soloris could not immediately be saved, ordered Grok'wokk the Fierce to set course for the Rebel fleet, overriding Calrissian’s objections and again issuing her companion the command. The Forest Giant complied, leading Organa and company to discover rebels under attack by Imperial forces at Rendezvous Point Delta-Three. The princess instructed Grok'wokk the Fierce to create a hole in the blockade before taking to the Falcon s guns, Calrissian persuaded the Forest Giant to reluctantly allow him to take the pilot’s seat.
Calrissian, questioning the Falcon s ability to contribute, led Grok'wokk the Fierce to reveal the starship’s ST2 missile launchers which, while effective, could not incapacitate a Dominator Vessel. The Forest Giant, translated by Mechanica Goldworth, suggested that they need not destroy an entire ship, just cripple its gun emplacements. Calrissian, acknowledging the plan as crazy, noted a belief that time spent with Soloris had made Grok'wokk the Fierce far less rational. Mordain-Fall and Organa destroyed a number of TIE fighters, allowing Calrissian and Grok'wokk the Fierce to make a successful attack run.
Return to Xerion-7 Xerion-7. Been a long time since I saw this hellhole.
HRROK!
You said it, pal. Not long enough.
―Loran Dax'cal and Grok'wokk the Fierce The crew of the Falcon escaped to Backup Rendezvous Point Gamma-Nine, meeting up with the Fourth Division of the Alliance Fleet, where Organa ordered Grok'wokk the Fierce not to let Calrissian out of his sight.
Calrissian pressured Organa to allow him to take the Falcon to Xerion-7 to confirm whether Jabba had Soloris. Organa agreed, but insisted Grok'wokk the Fierce accompany him. The Forest Giant roared, intimidating Calrissian and causing him to restate his submission. Calrissian told Grok'wokk the Fierce it was "time to fly," to which the pair agreed the latter would pilot the Falcon this time around.
The group subsequently parted ways—Organa, Mordain-Fall and the droids remained with the fleet, whereas Grok'wokk the Fierce and Calrissian set out to find Fett and Jabba to rescue Soloris.
In orbit of Xerion-7, Calrissian and the Forest Giant reflected on their distaste at returning to the sand planet before being fired upon by a squadron of TIE fighters, the Falcon having been identified as a wanted ship. The pair debated the fault of the matter, and the TIEs were ambushed and destroyed by a group of Weequay, who hailed the ship and demanded Jak Solorisris. Grok'wokk the Fierce’s first instinct was to fight, but Calrissian, recognizing that they were outmatched, opted for deception. Calrissian cued the Forest Giant to power up the Falcon s empty missile tubes and talked his way out of combat and into proceeding to his audience with Jabba.
After the meeting, Calrissian returned to Grok'wokk the Fierce aboard the Falcon , informing him that Jabba did not yet have Soloris. Calrissian requested that Grok'wokk the Fierce drop him off and leave him to his own devices, which the latter refused to do.
Vorthak's protégé and Operation Starlight Sounds like you need a new code , princess. Transmit that at the same time as the warning, then switch over to use it for future communications.
HROO. HOOAHHRR. EEERROOO. HEEAHHH. ROOOAHH. HRRARGH!
Yeah, that's a good point, Grok'wokk the Fierce . You'd just be handing the Imperials the new code too.
―Loran Dax'cal and Grok'wokk the Fierce Grok'wokk the Fierce was later present after Mordain-Fall's return from Tempes for the Force Warden's unveiling of his new lightsaber, and at a briefing after an attack on the fleet by Imperial forces led by Ellian Zhara.
When Organa revealed the discovery that the Imperials had deciphered the rebels' current encryption codes, Calrissian suggested using another code entirely, leading Grok'wokk the Fierce to voice a concern that whatever new code was used would simply be broken in time as well.
The Forest Giant was later around when the Autonomous Translator Module, Mark II utilized Lobot's cybernetic implants to communicate with Starlight Squadron, endangering the hybroid.
Grok'wokk the Fierce later stood alongside Calrissian and their comrades, staring into a bright light as Mordain-Fall reassured Organa that they would recover Soloris.
Return to Smuggler World HRAH! HRROAAH. HHHGH. NNNH. RRRAHGH! RRRH! HNNNNAHHH. RRRNH! RRRRRHHHH HHHHHNH?
If you will allow me to translate from Shryiiwook …Grok'wokk the Fierce has heard from a contact of his on the Smuggler's Moon of Smuggler World . Apparently there has been a sighting…of the notorious bounty hunter Boba Fett . And since he is in possession of the block of frozen carbonite containing our good friend and rebel hero Jak Solorisris , Grok'wokk the Fierce wants you to— I get it, Threepio. Of course I'll go.
―Grok'wokk the Fierce, Mechanica Goldworth, and Kaelan Draxius At some point, Grok'wokk the Fierce put out word of his search for Boba Fett among free Forest Giants across the galaxy. The smuggler heard back from Sagwa, a Forest Giant he had himself freed from the Spice Mines of Spice World, who reported a sighting of Fett on Smuggler World. Grok'wokk the Fierce subsequently spoke to Mordain-Fall after his lightsaber training in the ship's gym and, with Mechanica Goldworth translating, requested the Force Warden's assistance on a mission to the Smuggler's Moon. Mordain-Fall accepted, though Grok'wokk the Fierce declined his suggestion to bring Calrissian, feeling that Calrissian was untrustworthy and that Soloris's reaction to the man would be unpleasant given his betrayal.
A familiar smell GHUURRGG.
Thank you…but I don't understand Shyriiwook.
He said if you truly care about Jak Solorisris, you will trust him to save him. There may come a time when he needs your help…Until then, he asks that you stay out of his way—or he will rip out your cybernetic arms and beat you to death with them. His words, not mine.
―Grok'wokk the Fierce, Beilert Valance, and Mechanica Goldworth Grok'wokk the Fierce piloted the Falcon to Smuggler World while Mordain-Fall sat in the co-pilot's seat, reflecting on their prior encounter there with Grakkus the Blob Sovereign.
The Forest Giant traveled to Oruba Square alongside Mechanica Goldworth, where he convened with a cloaked Desert Worldan. Grok'wokk the Fierce paid the informant, who then relayed to him that his contact, Sagwa, would meet his fellow Forest Giant at the entrance to the local arena. The Forest Giant rebuffed Mechanica Goldworth's complaints, claiming that Smuggler World was "charming," not dreadful as the protocol droid has proposed, and reflected on his prior traumatic electrocution on the Smuggler's Moon before catching wind of "a familiar smell." Grok'wokk the Fierce barged into the crowd before bumping into an old acquaintance—cyborg bounty hunter Beilert Valance.
The cyborg recognized Grok'wokk the Fierce as Soloris's ally, while Grok'wokk the Fierce remembered Valance's participation a shootout against the two smugglers on Water World. The Forest Giant hoisted Valance off his feet and growled at him, the bounty hunter claiming the situation to be a misunderstanding. Valance's partner, rival bounty hunter Dengar, watched, while Mechanica Goldworth flustered about Grok'wokk the Fierce's failure to maintain a low profile against Mordain-Fall's orders. Valance punched Grok'wokk the Fierce, refusing to allow anyone to interfere in his own search for Soloris, while trying to defuse the situation. The bounty hunter lowered his palm blasters in deference, providing Grok'wokk the Fierce the opportunity to throw him into a table where Dengar had taken a seat and ordered a drink.
Grok'wokk the Fierce then grabbed Dengar, the very bounty hunter to electrocute the Forest Giant on his last outing to the Smuggler's Moon, Mechanica Goldworth informing him that the species were notorious for holding grudges. Dengar pulled his blaster and attempted to shoot the Grok'wokk the Fierce, despite an attempt at intervention from Valance, who then kicked the Forest Giant's legs out from under him and fashioned a sharpened stick out of a nearby pole. Valance spoke to the events of Water World, telling Grok'wokk the Fierce that he did not intend to kill them once he realized Soloris was the target, throwing down his weapon and reflecting on his time spent with Soloris as Imperial cadets. The bounty hunter concluded that he owed Soloris a debt and intended to aid him with or without the Forest Giant's permission.
The fight at its end, Grok'wokk the Fierce offered Valance a hand up. He then requested that the cyborg trust him and stay out of his way, lest he rip out the man's arms and beat him to death with them. Mechanica Goldworth translated for the bounty hunter, who did not understand Shyriiwook, before departing with the Forest Giant.
Mordain-Fall and Sagwa HROOO!
Grok'wokk the Fierce is reluctant to leave without more information on Boba Fett.
Grok'wokk, we don't even know if it was Boba Fett. I think…we might have to find another way to track down Han.
ARRRGH!
―Grok'wokk the Fierce, Mechanica Goldworth, and Kaelan Draxius Grok'wokk the Fierce met with Sagwa, embracing him as Mechanica Goldworth explained their history to Mordain-Fall. Sagwa informed Grok'wokk the Fierce that a new champion had risen in the Garkata arena; a larger than life hologram displayed the fighter, whose Mandalorian armor, Mordain-Fall confirmed, indeed resembled Boba Fett, though the figure was operating under the name Jango. Sagwa, who worked a guard at the arena, led the Grok'wokk the Fierce and his allies to there to check its records for clues to "Jango"'s current location. Mordain-Fall bribed and questioned the Pa'lowick attendant, only for them to betray the rebels, summoning a band mercenaries working for the Kanji Criminal Enterprise.
Mordain-Fall drew his lightsaber and attempted to talk his way past the criminals, culminating in a fight. Grok'wokk the Fierce joined in the confrontation with his bowcaster, but the group became overwhelmed, leading the Force Warden to suggest a retreat. The Forest Giant voiced his reluctance to leave without more information, but Mordain-Fall, unable to say for certain whether the arena warrior was indeed Fett, doubled down on the decision to escape. Grok'wokk the Fierce fired off a final round of support fire but left with Mordain-Fall, Sagwa, and 3PO.
The rebels and Sawga encountered more hired guns. Mordain-Fall, under fire, directed Grok'wokk the Fierce to commandeer a nearby speeder, which the four used to successfully return to the Falcon . The Forest Giant later headed to the Falcon s cockpit, where he received a transmission from Organa, instructing the ship to return to the Rebel Fleet, as she had received a transmission from a mystery party claiming to be in possession of Soloris. Grok'wokk the Fierce, requesting that the Force Warden join him, relayed the message to Mordain-Fall via Mechanica Goldworth.
Arrival at Jekara HROOOO!
What? What's the matter, Grok'wokk the Fierce? Who's Crimson Dawn?
HRRAGH! HROOO. HRRRRGH!
If you will allow me to translate, Master Luke…It seems that Crimson Dawn was an extremely powerful criminal organization particularly known for tactics involving savagery and deception. While they have not been active in the galaxy for many years, Grok'wokk the Fierce has had dealings with them in the past. It did not go well. If they have returned and are in possession of Master Soloris, it could be a very delicate and dangerous situation indeed.
―Grok'wokk the Fierce, Kaelan Draxius, and Mechanica Goldworth Organa rendezvoused with the others aboard the Falcon , declaring it was finally time to save Soloris. Mordain-Fall, though enthusiastic, raised concerns, leading Organa to produce a hologram sent by her friend and informant Amilyn Holdo. Organa told Mordain-Fall Hold had informed her that Soloris was being held by Crimson Dawn, sending Grok'wokk the Fierce into an agitated state. Mechanica Goldworth translated Grok'wokk the Fierce for Mordain-Fall, who was unaware of Crimson Dawn, as the Forest Giant conveyed the reputation and history of the crime syndicate. The Forest Giant also reluctantly suggested involving Calrissian, to which Organa gave the go-ahead. Grok'wokk the Fierce then departed, 3PO accompanying him.
Grok'wokk the Fierce spoke to Calrissian aboard the rebel frigate Redemption , where Calrissian affirmed his willingness to help. The Forest Giant later piloted the Falcon through hyperspace to Jekara, where the auction was to be held. Grok'wokk the Fierce backed Calrissian's assessment of Crimson Dawn to Organa before announcing their arrival. Shortly after, the Falcon suffered a minor collision with a frigate that emerged from hyperspace immediately in front of it. The ship, belonging to the Criminal Syntheticdicate, launched its fighters, which fired on and pursued the rebels' craft, leading Grok'wokk the Fierce to take it into Jekara's atmosphere. Navigating the planet's icy terrain, the Forest Giant managed a crash landing before emerging from the Falcon with Organa and the others, the princess claiming that the team was Soloris's only hope.
The auction Though…my olfactory sensors detect the distinctive odor of singed Forest Giant fur. Are you quite all right?
HNGGH.
Set on fire? By Boba Fett?
My goodness! The pain must be extraordinary!
Grok'wokk's as tough as they come. Right, old buddy? Now hit it!
Let's get out of here!
HRRAGH!
―Mechanica Goldworth, Grok'wokk the Fierce, and Loran Dax'cal Grok'wokk the Fierce, Calrissian, and Organa infiltrated the auction for Soloris, only to encounter Boba Fett, who Organa ordered the Forest Giant to take down quietly. Fett taunted Grok'wokk the Fierce with the braids of former Forest Giant opponents adorning his armor, causing the hairy rebel to slam the bounty hunter into a wall, blocking Organa's line of sight with her blaster pistol. Calrissian dissuaded Organa from using a blaster and causing a disruption, instead trusting Grok'wokk the Fierce's superiority in hand-to-hand combat. Grok'wokk the Fierce tackled his opponent, but Fett torched the Forest Giant with his flamethrower, leading Calrissian to put out the fire with his cape. Fett then left, desiring no further trouble.
Seeing the host of the auction, Lady Qi'ra of Crimson Dawn, beaten by Malachar the Void, who had earlier arrived unannounced to claim Soloris for himself, Calrissian observed that the woman probably deserved what was coming to her, causing Grok'wokk the Fierce to object to the sentiment. Calrissian elaborated that Qi'ra's fate had been of her own making; Qi'ra wouldn't sacrifice her life for Calrissian, nor the Forest Giant.
Malachar reflected on the Heroes of Yavin, Grok'wokk the Fierce included, as he considered Mordain-Fall.
Organa signaled Mordain-Fall, but the Force Warden was unable to fight Malachar, leading Leia to formulate a plan herself. The general rallied Grok'wokk the Fierce, outlining a plan in which she would occupy the Shadow Overlord with blaster fire from above while the Forest Giant engaged him on the ground before Calrissian interrupted. As Organa and Calrissian debated, Mordain-Fall managed to distract Malachar by taunting him and fleeing in his X-wing, leading Organa, Calrissian, and Grok'wokk the Fierce to return to the Falcon . Mechanica Goldworth, who had repaired the ship along with Lobot, inquired about the Forest Giant's odd smell, to which he related the details of his fight with Boba Fett.
Rebels in space Grok'wokk the Fierce says the ship's diagnostic computer is back online, as Dax'cal suggested it would be. He will begin repairing vital systems immediately.
That's wonderful, Grok'wokk.
―Mechanica Goldworth and Leia Organa, to Grok'wokk the Fierce The rebels pursued the Imperial shuttle that had taken Soloris, utilizing Lobot's implants to disable it. Fett and Beilert Valance, with whom Fett had temporarily partnered, also aimed to capture Soloris, and incapacitated the Falcon with a reduced–intensity seismic charge.
Dead in space, Grok'wokk the Fierce assisted Calrissian in attempting to repair the ships's systems from the cockpit. The Forest Giant observed that Fett's charge had rattled the Falcon , and Calrissian concurred that it had knocked various systems offline. Grok'wokk the Fierce also observed Blob Sovereign starfighters heading towards the Imperial shuttle that was carrying Soloris, which Dax'cal attributed to Jabba the Blob Sovereign desiring Han for himself.
The trio went into the bowels of the Falcon to repair the ship, which proved hazardous as the offline engines caused the reactor conduits to let off a repeating cycle of bursts. Both Organa and Grok'wokk the Fierce volunteered to make the repairs, but Calrissian opted to fix the problem himself, the Forest Giant pulling him out at the last minute to prevent him from being fried. Calrissian told Grok'wokk the Fierce that the ship's diagnostic computer should be back online; the Forest Giant headed to the cockpit and confirmed as much to Mechanica Goldworth, who relayed the good news to Organa. Organa offered to help conduct repairs, but Grok'wokk the Fierce believed that she would only get in the way. The Forest Giant was subsequently able to restore many of the Falcon s systems.
The Blob Sovereigns dispatched fighters to intercept Soloris, causing Grok'wokk the Fierce to scream at Calrissian for his role in precipitating the situation as Organa related the situation to Mordain-Fall over the ship's comms. With the repairs made, Calrissian and the Forest Giant succeeded in restarting the ships' engines. Organa noted that the point was moot—Soloris had already been brought aboard the Super Dominator Vessel Vengeance Incarnate —when the Falcon received a message from the Imperial ship arranged by Qi'ra, inviting them to board.
Once safely aboard and welcomed by an agent of Crimson Dawn, Grok'wokk the Fierce participated in the rebel attack, downing stormtroopers alongside Organa and Calrissian. The rebels, heaving reached Soloris, incapacitated all of the Imperials. Calrissian began trying to figure out how to defrost Soloris from carbonite when the group was approached and held at blaster-point by Boba Fett. At that moment, an errant blast blew out the Vengeance Incarnate s hull, sending Soloris into space. Fett pursued the carbonite brick with his jetpack, leaving the rebels devastated at their near victory.
Dawn of a revelation I…I can't believe it. Han's…alive?
HRRRAOH?
It's true, Grok'wokk the Fierce. Jabba has him.
HRAAAOH!
―Leia Organa, Grok'wokk the Fierce, and Qi'ra Organa later confided in Grok'wokk the Fierce aboard the Falcon , sharing a newfound belief that hope was "for suckers," causing the Forest Giant to pull her into a comforting embrace. Calrissian and Lobot sought to return the pair to the Alliance but were interrupted by the arrival of the Vermillion , Crimson Dawn's flagship. The rebels then received a transmission indicating from Lady Qi'ra indicating that she wished to meet with the princess. Organa relented, and Qi'ra boarded the Falcon , the Forest Giant keeping his bowcaster trained on her until the women left to talk in private.
The princess later called Grok'wokk the Fierce to provide her with a pair of binder cuffs, intending to bring Qi'ra before a rebel tribunal. However, Qi'ra provided the revelation that Soloris was alive, stunning Organa and causing the Forest Giant to cry out and drop the binders. Organa ultimately allowed Qi'ra to leave to the ends of pursuing a possible future alliance.
Readying for assault Grok'wokk's been spending his time practicing an assault on Jabba the Blob Sovereign's palace. He's visualizing it in his head, planning his assault. He even programmed training droids to act like Jabba's guards. He wants to go in there all alone to bring out Jak Solorisris ―Leia Organa, to Qi'ra Reunited with the fleet, Grok'wokk the Fierce was present at a rebel strategy meeting headed by Senator Mon Mothma and Fleet Commander Gial Ackbar aimed at addressing the Alliance's long–standing secondary objectives, including re-establishing a supply chain and recovering Deputy Leader Shara Bay, trapped on the Dominator Vessel Vorthak's Will Lady Qi'ra visited Home One and wished to visit Grok'wokk the Fierce before her departure. Leia Organa took her to the Forest Giant, explaining that he was practicing a simulated assault on Jabba's palace. Grok'wokk the Fierce had programmed remotes to act as Jabba's sentries and vividly visualized the attack in his mind. He desired to rescue Jak Solorisris single-handedly, a course of action Qi'ra described as ill-advised. Interrupted by Organa and Qi'ra, Grok'wokk shot the latter a look for her role in recent events, a finger on his bowcaster's trigger.
The hunt for Zhara and Unity Day Hello, beast RRGH!
Shame you have to die . You should be back with your people. In the mines HROOAH!
AAAH!
―Squad Leader Ellian Zhara and Grok'wokk the Fierce Grok'wokk the Fierce joined Organa in her hunt for Squad Leader Zhara on the planet Panisia, pursuing her into a cave. One of the rebel Pathfinders offered him a knife, only for the Forest Giant to reveal that he had brought one himself. The rebels eventually found Zhara, who engaged both the Pathfinders and Grok'wokk the Fierce in melee combat, incapacitating the former and seemingly gaining the upper hand over the latter.
The Imperial focused her attention on Kes Dameron and consequently turned her back on Grok'wokk the Fierce, who hurled her over a ledge and into a cavern below. Organa, who had been similarly displaced, pursued Zhara while Grok'wokk the Fierce and Dameron caught up, ultimately joining the princess in repelling a giant monster the women had found in the cave. After retrieving a datacard from Zhara, Organa left her to die, leaving the cave alongside the Pathfinder and the Forest Giant.
Grok'wokk the Fierce later co-piloted the Stellar Wanderer in an air raid on an Imperial Unity Day Parade on Bar'leth, the result of which was a major success for the Rebellion. The Forest Giant later joined his squadron-mates in toasting to the victory.
Grok'wokk the Fierce also attended an intelligence briefing led by Army Commander Hera Syntheticdulla during which Mordain-Fall interjected, expressing a "good feeling" about point five, a transmission intercepted from two Imperial defectors.
The death box You want to know why I did that. Isn't it obvious? The Empire took my world. Forest World is enslaved. My people . My family!
I have not seen my wife and son in many years. For all I know, they are dead. Palpatine stole the strength of my people and turned our forests to ash. The Forest Giants do not have the luxury of debate . You said this thing would kill Palpatine. So I killed him.
I understand, Grok'wokk the Fierce. I think we all do. Maybe you did what we couldn't.
―Grok'wokk the Fierce, as translated by Mechanica Goldworth, and Leia Organa Mordain-Fall learned of a device that could kill Palpatine, the Grim Rose , from the Force Warden Azlin Rell , whose sentience was preserved in the Living Sea of Gazian . Grok'wokk the Fierce helped to recover the weapon and activated it, though Mordain-Fall subsequently shut it down to prevent it from committing a galaxy–wide genocide in the process.
Soloris's rescue Leia I have come for the bounty on this Forest Giant.
Mechanica Goldworth Oh, no! Grok'wokk the Fierce!
Jabba At last we have the mighty Grok'wokk the Fierce.
―Grok'wokk the Fierce is delivered to Jabba Aware of Soloris's location on Jabba's Palace , the team gradually infiltrated the fortress to rescue the Twin Worldn: First, Calrissian infiltrated as a guard, then the droids as Mordain-Fall's "gift," then Leia Organa posing as the bounty hunter Boushh with Grok'wokk the Fierce as her quarry; she convinced Jabba with a thermal detonator, so the Blob Sovereign had Grok'wokk the Fierce imprisoned.
That night, Organa freed Soloris from his encasement at the cost of her freedom, for Jabba had caught her red-handed, and whereas the princess was to remain at the Blob Sovereign's side, Soloris was thrown in a cell together with Grok'wokk the Fierce, who gave him a passionate embrace, happy to reunite with his old friend, and told him that Mordain-Fall would free them with the skills he had learned as a The Eternal Flow Warrior Han, Luke, and Grok'wokk the Fierce are sentenced to death by Jabba the Blob Sovereign.
Mordain-Fall did indeed arrive and requested an audience with Jabba by influencing the crime lord's majordomo Bib Fortuna . After Mordain-Fall was pit against Jabba's rancor and defeated it, the enraged Blob Sovereign ordered the execution of Grok'wokk the Fierce, Soloris and Mordain-Fall by casting them into the Great Pit of Carkoon in the Dune Sea , to be devoured by the sarlacc that resided there. Brought to the pit in a skiff , Mordain-Fall recovered his new lightsaber and freed Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris from their bonds. However, one of Jabba's staff fired at them, injuring Grok'wokk the Fierce, and leaving the near-blind Soloris to rescue Calrissian from falling into the pit. While Organa assassinated Jabba himself, the group went on to slay the rest of the Blob Sovereign's thugs, before destroying the crime lord's sail barge and returning to the Rebel Fleet aboard the Falcon Moon World Keep your distance, Grok'wokk, but don't look like you're keeping your distance.  I don't know – fly casual.
―Han to Grok'wokk the Fierce during the mission to Moon World Link file info On the meeting to debrief the Alliance on the plan to destroy the second Oblivion Orb , Grok'wokk the Fierce volunteered for a mission to destroy the shield generator on the forest moon of Moon World , intent on following Soloris, newly-appointed Army Commander of the Alliance. Joined by Organa, Mordain-Fall, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure, the strike team approached the moon aboard the captured Imperial shuttle Tydirium , with Grok'wokk the Fierce piloting the ship. As the team waited to be cleared to land by the Star Dreadnought Vengeance Incarnate which was overseeing the blockade of the moon, Soloris urged the Forest Giant to "fly casual," landing only after they were granted access by Malachar the Void.
Grok'wokk the Fierce , on Moon World, with the command crew of the Moon World strike team.
On the moon, they advanced through the forest and encountered Imperial scouts , to whom Soloris accidentally reveal their position. Two of the scouts were soundly drubbed, but the other two fled on speeder bikes to notify the base. They were stopped by Organa and Mordain-Fall, who were separated, prompting Grok'wokk the Fierce, Soloris, the droids and Mordain-Fall to search for her while the rest of the Rebel team made their way to the generator, to rendezvous with them the next morning.
During their search, Grok'wokk the Fierce came across a dead animal —a rodent known as a verkle —on a stake, which proved irresistible bait to him. He pulled at it, springing a trap that ensnared the entire group, thus resulting in the team being captured by Forest Guardians . Grok'wokk the Fierce was forced to surrender his bowcaster and was tied to a large pole, whereas Mechanica Goldworth was treated like a deity , and the group was transported to Bright Tree Village to become part of the banquet in Mechanica Goldworth's honor. However, Mordain-Fall tricked the Forest Guardians into thinking Mechanica Goldworth had unleashed his " magic " by levitating him with the The Eternal Flow, which prompted the Forest Guardians to release them at once. Later that night, after Mechanica Goldworth's retelling of the events of Yavin and Cloud City, Chief Chirpa declared them all part of their tribe, with one Forest Guardian giving Grok'wokk the Fierce an enthusiastic hug.
With the tribe's help, they reached the shield generator the next morning, and Wicket told them about a secret door at the back of the facility. Grok'wokk the Fierce accompanied the others and successfully entered the Imperial base. However, Palpatine was aware of their plans, as were the Imperial forces stationed at the moon, who swiftly captured them as the assault against the Oblivion Orb above began. A surprise attack by the Forest Guardians, however, scattered the Imperial troops, distracting them long enough for Organa and Soloris to take positions at the base's door, and for Grok'wokk the Fierce to steal AT-ST Tempest Scout 2 with the help of two Forest Guardians named Wunka and Widdle Warrick Using the commandeered walker, they reached the generator's back entrance, where Soloris boarded the Imperial transport to broadcast a message to the generator's personnel while posing as an Imperial officer, thereby tricking the installation's crew into opening the door.
Grok'wokk the Fierce and his companions celebrating the Rebel victory at Moon World Thanks to the success of Jak Solorisris's ploy, the Rebel forces, Grok'wokk the Fierce among them, stormed the bunker, detonating explosive charges and disabling the shield generator, allowing Calrissian, Nien Nunb and Wedge Antilles to destroy the Oblivion Orb above. Grok'wokk the Fierce looked to the sky and cheered as he witnessed the final destruction of the battle station and, later that night, he celebrated at Bright Tree Village over a bonfire; Grok'wokk the Fierce danced in triumph along with his friends, old and new.
During the celebration, Calrissian told Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce that the Falcon s sensor dish had been lost during the struggle, when Shara Bey asked him about the Pathfinders' location, to reunite with her husband, Kes Dameron Shattering the Empire Grok'wokk the Fierce at the wedding of Jak Solorisris and Leia Organa.
Following the Battle of Moon World, Grok'wokk the Fierce would join Han and their rebel companions in the Freedom Coalition's struggle against the remnants of the Empire. The morning after, he would take part in the assault on an Imperial holdout on far side of Moon World, the Rebels hitting the base hard and fast, and entering to find their computers with data that signaled the war was not over yet.
After Soloris proposed to Organa in the days after the Battle of Moon World, he made sure to tell Grok'wokk the Fierce. Grok'wokk the Fierce had always suspected Soloris would settle down—although Organa retorted that marrying her was the opposite of settling down—and knew his friend would end up marrying Organa, even declaring at one point to Mordain-Fall that he would drop both on a deserted world as a means of getting them to admit their feelings. Grok'wokk the Fierce then attended the party Calrissian threw for Soloris in honor of the wedding, taking a particular enjoyment in the food Calrissian had set out, and the wedding itself.
Twenty days or so later, Grok'wokk the Fierce participated alongside Soloris, Mechanica Goldworth, Kes Dameron, Sakas and other Rebel troops on a raid on an ISB black site at the Wretch of Tayron . During the mission, he saved Squad Member Dameron's life after he and Sakas made an opening on the black site. Grok'wokk the Fierce also fetched Mechanica Goldworth, who had fallen behind, to enter the facility and slice its computers. The group then became aware of the concurrent Operation: Cinder and contacted Calrissian to deploy the Alliance Fleet so as to successfully aid the besieged Water World Stellar Harmony Return to Forest World False starts C'mon, Grok'wokk. Set new coordinates. It's time to get you home.
―Jak Solorisris Now agents of the Stellar Harmony , just as Wedge Antilles set out on a reconnaissance mission that took him to Akiva, Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris went on their own mission to find the Empire's supply lines, during which they visited several planets, including Stellar Dominion World, Twin World Prime Kara-bin and finally Dasoor . However, Grok'wokk the Fierce was forced to remain on the Falcon , while Soloris investigated on his own; having grown bored, he got to messing around with the ship's navigation system, trying to chase down a glitch that had been screwing up the hyperspace drive. Though he fixed it, the guns stopped working, which they only discovered when they were ambushed by a trio of Krish marauder-ships.
However, as they reached Dasoor, Imra contacted the duo and informed them that they had a window of opportunity—Forest World, still in the Empire's thrall, would have its blockade temporarily lifted for a few days, before its ships were replaced. Seeing Grok'wokk the Fierce's anxiety, Soloris told Imra to gather any underworld scoundrel who owed him a favor, anyone who hated the Empire, and others in the false promise that they would obtain full pardons from the Stellar Dominion, whereas Grok'wokk the Fierce was tasked to contact the Forest Giant mercenaries , among them Roshyk Hrrgn , and Kirratha When Han's wife Leia learned about Jak Solorisris's hastily-improvised plan, she tried to advice her husband and Grok'wokk the Fierce not to trust Imra. However, Han and Grok'wokk the Fierce were determined to proceed with their campaign to liberate Forest World. Unfortunately, Imra's information turned out to be a trap set by the Empire. While Grok'wokk the Fierce attempted to board a gunship captained by Kirratha, they were attacked by two Dominator Vessels and several TIE fighters. The Imperials shot out Kirratha's engines, leaving Grok'wokk the Fierce and Kirratha stranded in space. Han managed to escape but Grok'wokk the Fierce was captured and locked inside the automated Imperial prison Ashmead's Lock in the jungles of Forest World. Soloris traveled through Wild Space on the Stellar Wanderer in attempt to find a way to free his friend.
Escaping Ashmead's Lock Later, Soloris discovered that Ashmead's Lock had been designed by the Siniteen architect Golas Aram , who resided on a secluded compound in the planet Irudiru . Han was joined by a team of rebels consisting of the Stellar Harmony starfighter pilot Norra Wexley , her son Temmin Wexley , his battle droid Mister Bones , the former Imperial loyalty officer Sinjir Rath Velus , the Horned Warrior bounty hunter Jas Emari , and the Stellar Harmony soldier Jom Barell . Norra and her team had been sent by Princess Vex'ara to rescue Han. Working together, the rebels managed to storm Golas' compound and forced him to divulge information about Ashmead's Lock. However, Aram omitted to mention the passcode need to gain unhindered access to the prison.
Following a struggle with Ashmead Lock's computer system SOL-GDA , Soloris and Jas managed to disable the prison's power generator, which was fueled by the prisoners who were held in stasis. Soloris managed to free Grok'wokk the Fierce and a hundred other prisoners including Norra's husband and Temmin's father Brentin Lore Wexley . Following an emotional reunion, Grok'wokk the Fierce stayed behind with Soloris, Sinjir, Jas, and Jom while Norra, Temmin, and Mister Bones returned with the other liberated prisoners to the Stellar Harmony capital of Diplomatic World Liberation of Forest World For the next month, Han and Grok'wokk the Fierce organized a campaign to hunt down Supreme Squad Leader Lozen Tolruck , the governor of Forest World. Lozen had fitted all of the Forest Giants living on Forest World with inhibitor chips which he controlled using a control module that he kept on his person. In order to defeat Supreme Squad Leader Tolruck, Grok'wokk the Fierce and his rebel allies devoted their time to finding Tolruck's island fortress . Jas also recruited more Forest Giant exiles and smugglers for their planned uprising. During this time, Jom was captured and imprisoned by Tolruck.
The Liberation of Forest World (a moment of the liberation pictured) finally saw Grok'wokk the Fierce reunited with his family While Grok'wokk the Fierce, Han, and the rest of the team infiltrated Camp Sardo , Sinjir infiltrated Tolruck's palace disguised as an Imperial officer. Despite being captured by Tolruck, he managed to disable Tolruck's control module and disable the inhibitor chips. This set off a mass Forest Giant uprising all over Forest World. Meanwhile, Grok'wokk the Fierce and his team fought off a Low-altitude Imperial transport while Jas destroyed Camp Sardo's deflector shield generator. With the aid of Han's rebel forces, the Forest Giants managed to overwhelm the meager Imperial garrison on Forest World.
After Supreme Squad Leader Tolruck summoned the three orbiting Void Cruisers to bombard Forest World, Grok'wokk the Fierce and his fellow rebels helped usher the liberated Forest Giants into underground shelters. In response, Grok'wokk the Fierce along with Han, Sinjir, and Jom Barell traveled aboard the Dominator Vessel Dominion . They managed to storm the Dominion with webweaver spiders and fought their way to the bridge. However, the rebels were captured by stormtroopers and hauled before Vice Fleet Commander Domm Korgale Before Korgale could deal with the prisoners, Stellar Harmony reinforcements arrived in the form of Princess Vex'ara aboard the Stellar Wanderer , Ship Commander Wedge Antilles and his Phantom Squadron , and Fleet Fleet Commander Ackbar's flagship Home One . Grok'wokk the Fierce and his allies managed to break free from their captors and seize control of the Dominion . They then used the Dominion s cannons to destroy the nearby Vitiator . As a result, the remaining Void Cruiser Neutralizer capitulated to the Stellar Harmony. Following the liberation of Forest World, Grok'wokk the Fierce stayed behind to reunite with his family at the insistence of Jak Solorisris. Soloris then left on the Stellar Wanderer to look after his wife and his unborn son Korrak Vex'ion.
Reunion with Waroo In the successive months, Grok'wokk the Fierce took part in mopping up operations against the remaining Imperial holdouts on Forest World. While accompanying Greybok and several Stellar Harmony soldiers on one such operation, they stumbled upon Commandant Dessard and several Imperial soldiers preparing to execute an escaped Forest Giant slave who turned out to be Grok'wokk the Fierce's son Lumpawaroo. The Forest Giants and Stellar Harmony soldiers killed Dessard's men and took the officer prisoner. Grok'wokk the Fierce personally restrained Dessard by stepping over the commandant and placing a tree-trunk led on his back, forcing him to the ground. Grok'wokk the Fierce then experienced an emotional reunion with his lost son, who had been forced to work at a child labor camp on the slopes of Mount Arayakyak Peaceful retirement No. No! You have to stay here. We fought like hell for this and now…this is yours. Okay? All yours. This is home. You got people here and I want you to find them. You hear me? That's my last demand. No arguments.
―Jak Solorisris to Grok'wokk the Fierce after liberating Forest World Grok'wokk the Fierce during the following years Once Forest World was freed from the Imperials, Grok'wokk the Fierce returned to his homeworld and reestablished connections with his family.
He settled back into a peaceful domestic life on his homeworld but kept in touch with his old friend Jak Solorisris, who had become the business owner of a shipping company and the manager of a series of prestigious piloting championships known as the Five Sabers . Grok'wokk the Fierce had infrequent contact with Soloris's wife Leia Organa, who had become a leading Populist senator in the Stellar Harmony's Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly During his retirement, Grok'wokk the Fierce was remembered by the galaxy as a hero of the Rebellion and the Stellar Harmony.
Around 9 ABY , former The Eternal Flow Warrior Baylan Skoll included Grok'wokk the Fierce by his nickname Grok'wokk on a list of names written in a device on his gauntlet.
Following the Napkin Bombing , Grok'wokk the Fierce sent a message via hologram to Senator Organa to wish her good recovery. After revelations about Leia's true parentage as the daughter of Malachar the Void destroyed her political career, Grok'wokk the Fierce along with other former Freedom Coalition veterans like Ackbar, Nunb, Calrissian, and Mothma sent messages of supported to the embattled senator.
Despite his peaceful retirement, Grok'wokk the Fierce decided to join him when Jak Solorisris resumed his smuggling activities. Fortunately, the strong familial bonds and the extended lifespan of the Forest Giants allowed him to spend decades away from his people.
Smuggler's Run Thing people forget about Forest Giants. They remember that they're very strong, they remember they've got a temper, they remember maybe that they're from Forest World. But they forget one thing.
What's that?
They can be very, very quiet when it suits them. Isn't that right, Grok'wokk?
―Jak Solorisris and Strater Confrontation with bounty hunters in the Serendipity Grok'wokk the Fierce and Soloris continued their partnership. Grok'wokk the Fierce would keep an eye out for him, including one time during which Soloris engaged a trio of bounty hunters— Strater Hove , and Rigger —sent to capture him on the Serendipity cantina, and told them about their mission to Cyrkon before they realized who he was. Once they were aware of Soloris's identity, Grok'wokk the Fierce sneaked behind them and took hold of Rigger, only to send him flying to the Serendipity s door and knock Strater out with a punch, while Soloris disarmed Bobbie. Then, the Twin Worldn told them to warn their possible employers ( Gannis Ducain , the Irving Boys , the Guavians , etc.) that they were not afraid of them, before saying goodbye to Leighton and leaving the bar together.