35 ABY 3 ABY Enric Pryde Biographical information Homeworld Alsakan Born 27 BBY Alsakan Died 35 ABY Steadfast Exegol Descriptive information Species Human Gender Male Pronouns He/him Height meters ft 2in) Hair color Black , later gray Eye color Blue Skin color Light Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) The Void Imperium Imperial Officer Corps Enric Pryde's battlegroup Enric Pryde's regiment Imperial Remnants Forbidden Spheres Imperial remnant The Dark Collective The Dark Collective Navy The Dark Collective Supreme Council Corporate Sector Authority (covertly) Shadow Spawn Eternal Final Order Masters Void Collectiveus the Shadow (Mentor) As I served you in the old wars, I serve you now.
―Enric Pryde, to Void Collectiveus the Shadow Link file info Enric Pryde , also known by the callsign Steadfast , was a human male officer who held the military rank of Allegiant Army Commander in the The Dark Collective during the The Dark Collective-The Last Stand War . In the last days of the conflict, Pryde was appointed as the commanding officer of the Final Order —a massive fleet of Xyston -class Dominator Vessels —by the reborn Void Master of the Shadow Spawn Void Collectiveus the Shadow . Occupying a position of power and privilege, Pryde was a high-ranking The Dark Collective officer who wielded authority over the ground and naval forces of the The Dark Collective military . Pryde's flagship , the Resurgent -class Dominator Vessel Steadfast , was named in honor of the vessel he commanded during his time in the Imperial Navy A native of the planet Alsakan , Pryde was born during the twilight of the The Stellar Dominion and was raised under the reign of the The Void Imperium . Pryde personally witnessed Malachar the Void in action as a young fleet officer , and eventually became a captain of a battlegroup . As such, his ideology was shaped by the principles of the New Order , and he became a veteran of the Imperial Military After the Galactic Civil War , Pryde went into hiding with other former Imperial officers nobles and technologists into the Forbidden Spheres to flee the Stellar Harmony , eventually joining a remnant led by Multi-Eyed Traderd Fleet Commander Rae Sloane that sought to rebuild the Empire.
Pryde eventually became a High Colonel in the remnant , which maintained a covert but close relationship with the Corporate Sector Authority , who in turn provided them with secret funding. At one point, Pryde was assigned the code-named Steadfast, to work with the CSA. The Shadow Spawn Eternal , a Shadow Spawn cult that resided on the dark desert planet of Exegol , trusted Pryde, and instructed the Force Warden hunter Ochi of Bestoon to seek out Steadfast during the hunt for Dathan Miramir , and their daughter Zara Malthex . Using his authority in the CSA, Pryde provided Ochi with a contingent of CSA troopers and put a tracker beacon on his ship when the family fled in it. Pryde then became part of the The Dark Collective and became a secret agent within it for the resurrected Void Collectiveus the Shadow, where his consciousness was thrust into a cloned body of himself and trusted with the news of his rebirth to Pryde. As part of a second wave of leadership that Supreme Leader Snoke kept in reserve after the unveiling of Oblivion Fortress , Pryde was to serve in this. After Snoke's death , Supreme Leader Vorthak Mal'ion supported Pryde's career at the expense of their rival, Army Commander Armitage Hux While the mysticism of Snoke and Ren were foreign to him, Pryde was more than willing to follow Void Collectiveus's new command as an Imperial veteran himself. As a member of the The Dark Collective Supreme Council , he supported Ren's alliance with the Shadow Spawn Eternal, and personally executed Hux for committing espionage for the The Last Stand . When Ren's mission to Kef Bir led to his renunciation of the dark side, Pryde assumed command over The Dark Collective forces with the support of the Supreme Void Lord, who summoned Pryde to Exegol, where he was given command of the Shadow Spawn fleet. Pryde, however, perished when his command ship was destroyed by The Last Stand forces during the Battle of Exegol . Without the Steadfast , the Shadow Spawn warships were unable to leave Exegol , resulting in the Shadow Spawn fleet's destruction by the The Last Stand navy and Citizens' Fleet Biography Early life Enric Pryde was born on the Core World of Alsakan in 27 BBY From a young age, Pryde began to formulate a plan that would result in him gaining power and control over others, as well as his own destiny. Part of his plan involved staying as far away as possible from the frontlines of any war, but while he thought an Imperial desk job on Xerion Prime or another Imperial base would be the safest option, he believed such a posting to be beneath him. He would continue to adapt his plan throughout his career within the Empire.
By 11 BBY Pryde had achieved advanced placement in the Alsakan Academy Imperial service Entering the Empire Enric Pryde as an Imperial officer During the Imperial Era , Enric Pryde served in the Imperial Navy of the The Void Imperium He gave up his use of death sticks to fit his mental image of an Imperial officer He was posted on the Dominator Vessel Steadfast from 6 BBY . Pryde was friends with fellow Imperial officer Brendol Hux , and his wife, Maratelle . Through them, he also was familiar with Hux's son Armitage . As a young fleet officer , Pryde personally witnessed Malachar the Void in action.
Pryde ranked as Ship Commander of the Steadfast when a new Commodore Scaanos , was assigned to the ship following his predecessor's death at the Battle of Ponolapo . Despite Scaanos being Pryde's superior, the two consistently clashed, with Pryde believing Scaanos stretched the boundaries of command in ways he felt were deeply and deliberately antagonistic. Pryde felt further dislike for the Commodore as he had conjured a long and complicated plan, beginning from his time in the Alsakan Academy, that would end with him taking charge of the ship and Scaanos' presence had put the plan in jeopardy. He would make his feelings known about his superior through official Imperial channels, though he later admitted he could have worked around the rules more smartly rather than adhering to them.
Impervious service, hardly impervious to rebels At some point between 3 ABY and 4 ABY Deputy Leader Squad Leader Pryde was temporarily billeted to the Dominator Vessel Impervious in order to accomplish inspection duty on Zee-Nine City Seven . Over the course of his inspection, Pryde reported several times to Multi-Eyed Traderd Vizier Mas Amedda . In one of his recorded reports, he reported having discovered that the local Imperial Garrison was woefully understaffed and underfunded, therefore making it a target for rebels. He also noted that since his previous report, he had discovered three additional security breaches and captured a dozen insurgents. As he reiterated his request for more troops and supplies, the garrison came under attack by Rebel forces, causing him to fall to his feet. While ordering an assisting protocol droid to contact the Impervious , the droid noted that it was attempting to do so, but it did not believe it would be able to answer, just as Pryde finally noticed the Dominator Vessel crashing from the sky, with Pryde loudly expressing his disbelief.
He quickly ordered his troops to form up and prepare for an attack and threatened to kill his prisoners but was stopped by the M.A.R. Corps who captured him and locked him in a cage. Twelve hours later, Lord Malachar arrived and freed him after getting information on the Rebel cyborgs . As Malachar exited to confront the Corps, Pryde warned him that he was walking into a trap, to which the Shadow Overlord agreed. Pryde attempted to assist Malachar in his fight with the Rebels but was pushed out of the way, with Malachar telling him not to interfere with what he failed to comprehend. After Malachar captured the rebels, Pryde volunteered his services but was rebuffed by the Shadow Overlord's droid assistant, ZED-6-7 , who told him he was entirely unequipped for what would be coming next.
The Battle of Moon World Before the Battle of Moon World began, Pryde was ordered to join the ground forces on Moon World by Scaanos, much to his disdain. On the forest moon, he led a regiment of stormtroopers, including FS-451 . As the battle intensified on the ground and in orbit above the moon, Pryde hunkered into a hollow with FS-451 and TK-111 , a stormtrooper from another battalion, and during this time, he witnessed the destruction of the second Oblivion Orb in the skies above him. Pryde remained hidden as rebel X-wings flew celebratory arcs above, and later, as the fighters scoured the forest for Imperial survivors. Following the shock and awe of witnessing the demise of the Imperial fleet, Pryde could not provide answers to the two stormtroopers who looked to him for guidance. To provide relief from their situation, FS-451 offered Pryde a death stick, which he took without hesitation. Following his consumption of the illicit substance, Pryde succumbed to exhaustion and fell asleep.
When he awoke early the next morning, the effects of the death sticks lingered long enough to fill him with a feeling of celebration and pride as he believed the Empire had won a great victory. After the initial effects quickly wore off, Pryde realized the Empire had lost the battle. FS-451 offered him another death stick and he quickly refused, and instead thought of how the rebels might have taken care of Scaanos for him during the battle. Attempting to compose himself, Pryde could not feel his face or lips and his head had gone numb from the previous night's overindulgence. Fighting back the feeling of nausea in his stomach, he told himself he would bring up FS-451's behavior and lack of decorum at a later time. Pryde knew they would not be rescued from their situation, so he began to formulate a plan to escape the planet. After scolding FS-451 for being unable to start a fire to keep them warm, TK-111 informed Pryde that she had found something that would interest him.
TK-111 led Pryde and FS-451 through the forest and eventually stopped behind the hulk of a fallen tree. In the distance was a funeral pyre that was still emanating heat despite the fire having died out. When TK-111 informed him that Malachar the Void had died and his body burnt on the pyre, Pryde believed it made no sense as he knew Malachar was not on the moon and, having witnessed Malachar in action, knew the rebel soldiers did not have the capability to capture him. After the stormtrooper insisted she had seen Malachar atop the pyre, Pryde looked closer and agreed that it was a pyre but could not confirm that Malachar had been on it. He believed that the pyre instead belonged to a high-ranking member of the Freedom Coalition and began to think of how he could spin it to work in his favor with the Supreme Void Lord as he knew there were many gaps to be filled in Imperial ranks following the battle.
Ordering TK-111 to remain with FS-451, Pryde made his way to the funeral pyre to identify the corpse and salvage a souvenir. After moving a section of the pyre, he was overcome with shock and horror when he found the melted remains of Malachar the Void's armor in the center of the pile. Pryde could not comprehend how Malachar could have died and believed the situation he was looking at to be impossible. However, his shock quickly made way for a joyous sense of calm as he began to piece together the opportunities that had arisen in the aftermath of the battle and with Lord Malachar's death.
Hurriedly, Pryde ordered TK-111 to assist him in finding Malachar's lightsaber as he intended to use it as a totem to demonstrate the shifting of power from the Shadow Overlord to himself. He became overwhelmed with giddiness at the potential of the situation and was forcefully brought back to the present by TK-111 as the sounds of Forest Guardian drumming and activity grew louder around them. Realizing they had to leave the area before they risked being discovered, Pryde reluctantly gave up his search for the lightsaber. He instructed TK-111 to eliminate FS-451 as collateral damage due to him having consumed further death sticks. He allowed himself to look into the sky above at the ragged glowing patch where the second Oblivion Orb had once been and murmured to himself that the old order was giving way to a new one. When TK-111 confirmed she had killed FS-451, Pryde smiled and told her they were going to find a way off the moon.
At some point, he acquired the pelts of a family of Forest Guardians and was able to make a fur coat from them. He regarded it as one of the finest pieces of tailoring he had ever owned and believed it fitting for an officer of the rank of High Colonel The Battle of Jakku Pryde later served as the captain of a battlegroup during the Battle of Jakku , the Empire's last gasp of defiance against the Stellar Harmony in 5 ABY . The Steadfast was destroyed in the battle, and Pryde fled into the Forbidden Spheres as other Imperial officers had done after the Stellar Harmony defeated the Empire on Jakku Aiding the CSA Go to Basta Core. There you will meet an agent. Steadfast. He will assist.
―A Shadow Spawn Eternal cultist, to Ochi Pryde was a captain in his battlegroup at the time of the Battle of Jakku. With the deaths of his superior officers, Pryde asserted his authority over the remaining members of his battlegroup as their new commander and self-appointed high colonel Now a veteran of the Imperial Military he still held the rank of high colonel by 21 ABY at which point he worked toward the goal of reuniting the disparate remnants of the old The Void Imperium, believing that what the galaxy needed most was order and stability. Falling under the emerging command structure from the Forbidden Spheres, the Imperial remnant that Pryde served maintained a covert relationship with the Corporate Sector Authority Pryde used the code name "Steadfast" while working with the CSA to conceal the remnant's connection to the company. He also came to the attention of the Shadow Spawn Eternal cult, which operated under the authority of the reborn Palpatine, and the cult came to view "Steadfast" as an agent they could trust. During a CSA mission on Basta Core , "Steadfast" was sought out by Ochi of Bestoon , a Force Warden hunter who looked to the Imperial veteran for assistance in the hunt for Dathan and Miramir , and their daughter Zara Malthex . Pryde granted Ochi three platoons —a full company of CSA troopers —and a transport , despite Viceprex Coromun 's objections, though they were overruled by the high colonel. Later, however, Pryde rejected Ochi's demands for another detachment of CSA troops , and warned the hunter to stay away from the Corporate Sector Joining the The Dark Collective Enric Pryde rose through the The Dark Collective's ranks while secretly being a contact for the reborn Void Collectiveus the Shadow.
Enric Pryde joined the The Dark Collective a military junta established by former Imperial officers, nobles , technologists, and warlords after the Empire's defeat on Jakku.
Eventually many former leaders, like Pryde, gave way for the rise of a new leader, in the form of Supreme Leader Snoke . While the mysticism of his powers were alien to him, Pryde knew more about the Supreme Leader's machinations than many of his peers and used his power and insights to cement his own power. However, Pryde eventually came to suspect that Snoke himself was subservient to an unknown force.
Pryde's suspicions of Snoke would eventually prove correct when he was recruited to become a contact for the reborn Void Collectiveus the Shadow, who trusted Pryde with the news of his survival, becoming an agent for Void Collectiveus within the The Dark Collective.
In 28 ABY Snoke gave Pryde, an Fleet Commander by that that time, command of a Resurgent -class Dominator Vessel , which was named the " Steadfast " by Pryde in honor of the Dominator Vessel he served aboard during the days of the Empire. Pryde was part of a second wave of leadership in the The Dark Collective kept in reserve by Supreme Leader Snoke during the unveiling of Oblivion Fortress which Pryde would later come to regard as an error due to the loss of resources and men.
Vorthak Mal'ion's reign Promotion to Allegiant Army Commander Pryde was promoted to the rank of Allegiant Army Commander by Snoke's successor, Supreme Leader Vorthak Mal'ion.
After the death of Snoke, his former apprentice Vorthak Mal'ion , who had secretly assassinated Snoke himself but instead had implicated Zara Malthex as Snoke's murderer, became the new Supreme Leader of the The Dark Collective, coercing his and Pryde's rival, Army Commander Armitage Hux into following him. Pryde, an admiral was left as one of the most senior officers in the The Dark Collective High Command and commanded reserve forces. While rebuilding his command, Ren discovered the reserve forces under Pryde's leadership and brought Pryde to the fore, eventually making him a member of the The Dark Collective Supreme Council he formed. Pryde knew far more about the machinations of Supreme Leader Snoke and the late Void Collectiveus than his cohorts, which he used towards his advantage to cement his power.
One of Ren's acts as Supreme Leader was to award the rank of Allegiant Army Commander to Pryde, granting the Imperial veteran command over both services of the The Dark Collective military. Army Commander Hux considered the promotion of Pryde as a public slight against his person, given his past rivalry with Ren.
A transmission from the unknown He's gone mad. Flames of rebellion burn across the galaxy, and Ren chases a ghost No.
Someone was behind that transmission. And Leader Ren will answer to no one.
―Armitage Hux and Enric Pryde In the year after the Battle of Crait , a mysterious broadcast with the voice of the late Supreme Void Lord Palpatine, the public identity of Void Collectiveus the Shadow, swept out across the galaxy. Deeming the Supreme Void Lord's return as a potential threat to his rule, Ren diverted his attention from the The Last Stand and sought ways to track down the Supreme Void Lord's whereabouts. The Supreme Leader became aware that he required a Shadow Spawn wayfinder to do so, leading Ren to go, accompanied by Pryde and Hux, to the volcanic planet of Lava World , once ruled by Malachar from his personal stronghold, Fortress Malachar . Upon arriving there, Ren and a stormtrooper squad engaged in a fight with the Alazmec of Winsit , a tenacious sect of Shadow Spawn cultists devoted to protecting Corvax Fen and who venerated Malachar as a deity of the dark side, while Pryde and Hux watched from a safe distance. As the fight ensued, Pryde asked Hux if he didn't like to see Ren fighting. When Hux expressed his opinion that Ren had gone mad due prioritizing a ghost's chase over the burning rebellion flames across the galaxy, Pryde reminded Hux that there was someone behind the message and that Ren would answer to no one due to the sacrifices he made to gain his power.
Alliance with the Shadow Spawn Eternal They've conjured legions of Dominator Vessels. The Shadow Spawn fleet will increase our resources ten-thousandfold! Such range in power will correct the error of Oblivion Fortress.
―Enric Pryde, to the Supreme Council, regarding the Shadow Spawn Eternal's fleet, the Final Order Pryde argued in support of an alliance between the The Dark Collective and the Shadow Spawn Eternal during a meeting of the Supreme Council.
Ren eventually made his way to Fortress Malachar and recovered his grandfather's wayfinder , which he used to track down the Supreme Void Lord. After discovering that Void Collectiveus the Shadow had brought himself back to life, his followers in the Shadow Spawn Eternal , and their built-up forces on Exegol , and learning that there was a spy within the The Dark Collective who had sent a message to the The Last Stand, Vorthak Mal'ion presented the head of Boolio before Pryde and the rest of the Supreme Council and informed them of his findings during a meeting on the Steadfast . Army Commander Domaric Quinn expressed skepticism of the cult, dismissing them as soothsayers and conjurers, but Pryde supported the The Dark Collective's alliance with the Shadow Spawn Eternal, and scoldingly told the former technologist Imperial junior officer that a Shadow Spawn armada, the Final Order , would increase their resources ten thousandfold before snidely remarking that it would "correct the error " of Oblivion Fortress while glaring at Army Commander Hux.
After discovering that the The Last Stand was operating on Pasaana , Leader Ren ordered Allegiant Army Commander Pryde to prepare his ship and notify their local forces on Pasaana of the The Last Stand's presence. Army Commander Hux later discussed the mission to Pasaana with Allegiant Army Commander Pryde, noting that the The Dark Collective had experienced considerable losses under the command of the Knights of Ren . Hux presented their captured prisoner, Grok'wokk the Fierce , to Pryde, who ordered he be locked up in the detention block.
Pryde executed Army Commander Armitage Hux for defection and espionage after deducing that the young officer was a spy.
During the The Last Stand's mission to Kijimi , Hux had helped Squad Leader Poe Dameron and Finn return to the Stellar Wanderer and escape the Steadfast , while Pryde spotted the Bestoon Legacy the very same ship Ochi had used and was suddenly being used by the The Last Stand, much to his surprise. Hux reported to Pryde that the The Last Stand fighters had forced him to help them escape. However, Pryde saw through Hux's lie and, having realized that Hux was the spy, executed him on the spot before having the Supreme Leader informed of Hux's betrayal and espionage . Pryde also told Ren that the Shadow Spawn dagger, upon which there was an inscription of the location of one of the Shadow Spawn wayfinders, now in the The Last Stand's possession, had been scanned during the captivity of the Forest Giant, allowing Ren to track Zara Malthex to Kef Bir , where the Force Warden aspirant hoped to uncover a Shadow Spawn wayfinder that would lead her straight to the Supreme Void Lord.
Serving Void Collectiveus Destruction of Kijimi Send a ship to a world they know. Let it burn.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow, to Allegiant Army Commander Enric Pryde Pryde declared his loyalty to Void Collectiveus the Shadow, the Supreme Void Lord whom he served during the Galactic Civil War.
Abandoning the The Dark Collective, Vorthak Mal'ion renounced the dark side after his mother, Princess Leia Organa , sacrificed herself to reach out to him during a duel with Zara Malthex on Kef Bir, assuming his identity as Korrak Vex'ion once more.
Without Ren present in affairs, Pryde was suddenly able to take orders directly from Void Collectiveus.
Indeed, Void Collectiveus discussed this turn of events with Pryde over a hologram . The Supreme Void Lord ordered the Allegiant Army Commander to come to him on Exegol, and Pryde pledged himself to Void Collectiveus, reminding the Shadow Overlord that he served him during the Old Wars, and now would do so again. Pryde's declaration thus cemented the alliance between the The Dark Collective and the Shadow Spawn cultists.
The Supreme Void Lord then informed the Allegiant Army Commander that he was sending him a Xyston -class Dominator Vessel and ordered him to send it to a planet with ties to the The Last Stand. Army Commander Pryde had the Dominator Vessel sent to Kijimi , which it subsequently destroyed after he instructed the garrison to enact Protocol 13 To his joy, the Supreme Void Lord shared the way to Exegol with him and showed him a hologram of the vast Shadow Spawn fleet which he became in charge of while Void Collectiveus gained direct control over the The Dark Collective forces.
Downfall over Exegol They're targeting the navigation tower so the fleet can't deploy!
Then we won't use that tower. Switch out the source of the navigation signal to this ship. We will guide the fleet out ourselves.
―A The Dark Collective officer and Enric Pryde, during the Battle of Exegol Pryde commanded the Shadow Spawn Eternal's fleet, the Final Order, during the Battle of Exegol.
Pryde arrived on Exegol sometime before the Battle of Exegol , where the Steadfast acted as the command ship of the Shadow Spawn fleet. A The Last Stand attack was launched in the hopes to prevent the Shadow Spawn Dominator Vessels from sowing chaos across the galaxy. After learning from a fellow officer that the The Last Stand was targeting the navigation tower on Exegol, Pryde had the source of the navigation signal needed for the fleet to deploy from Exegol switched to the Steadfast , declaring that they would guide the fleet out themselves. However, The Last Stand Army Commander Finn realized that the signal had been transferred to the Steadfast , and the The Last Stand's ground team concocted a daring plan to land on the hull of the Steadfast . Pryde had legions of Shadow Spawn troopers and Shadow Spawn Jetpack Troopers deployed to repel any boarders and also ordered a bridge technician to jam the The Last Stand speeders, only to be informed that they were not using speeders; rather, to Pryde's astonishment, the The Last Stand mounted a cavalry charge on orbaks against the Shadow Spawn troopers, causing a battle to break out on the ship's hull.
Pryde was further baffled when another fleet comprised of thousands of ships arrived to reinforce the The Last Stand, wanting to know where such a vast amount of ships had come from, given that the The Last Stand had no navy. Fleet Commander Griss, also in attendance, shocked Pryde by remarking that it wasn't a navy, but the ordinary people of the galaxy, rising up and coming together to turn back the darkness that threatened them.
When Finn and Jannah were successful in shutting down the transmitter, the The Last Stand prepared to depart the ship, having beaten back a multitude of Shadow Spawn troopers. However, the The Dark Collective officer merely gave the order to reset the Steadfast s systems, which Finn caught on to. He and Jannah chose to stay on the ship to destroy it while the rest of the ground team escaped.
The The Last Stand destroyed the Shadow Spawn fleet's command ship, the Steadfast , killing Allegiant Army Commander Pryde in the process.
Holding back the Shadow Spawn troopers, Finn and Jannah successfully destroyed the Steadfast by turning its turbolasers against the ship itself, corresponding with the final demise of Void Collectiveus the Shadow at the hands of Zara Malthex. As the Steadfast began to crumble under its own firepower, Pryde ran towards the front of the bridge and stared out at the Shadow Spawn fleet as it was overwhelmed and destroyed by the allied fleet. Pryde did not have long to despair, however, as a massive explosion consumed the bridge of the Steadfast , killing all present on it and hurling Pryde's lifeless body through the viewport Personality and traits Where did they get all these fighter craft? They have no navy.
It's not a navy, sir, it's just… people.
―Enric Pryde and Frantis Griss, during the battle at Exegol Pryde longed to return to the "High Human" culture that flourished under the The Void Imperium.
Enric Pryde was a human male who had blue eyes , fair skin, and gray hair . He wore a unique The Dark Collective military officer uniform along with his appropriate rank insignia of the The Dark Collective He also often carried a lacquered ebonwood swaggerstick , which connected to the riding traditions of the military of Alsakan , Pryde's homeworld As a younger man, he had used death sticks but gave up the drug to fit his mental image of what an Imperial officer should be. However, dealing with Ochi and Bestoon and the CSA made him long for his old stimulant. During that time, he had taken to carrying around a flask of expensive abrax to remind him of the civilization he'd left behind to work with the CSA, growing very annoyed but also laughing heavily at the sight of Ochi gulping down much of the flask's contents.
Beyond his longing for " High Human " culture to make a comeback, Enric Pryde longed for the return of the The Void Imperium and authority to the galaxy. Pryde favorably remembered the spectacle that was the Empire Day parades. Pryde recognized that he knew more about Void Collectiveus the Shadow and Snoke's machinations than most of his cohorts and used it to maintain his own power.
He was a pragmatist and considered the Shadow Spawn fleet his life's work. While looking over it, he found that he could look across it forever.
Unlike his The Dark Collective allies, Pryde displayed a tolerance for mysticism but refused to voice his opinions. When the The Dark Collective joined forces with the Shadow Spawn Eternal, he was ambitious to use their forces while most of the The Dark Collective clashed with their new allies. Pryde viewed the arcane behavior of the Shadow Spawn Eternal as by-products of a thirst for power and regarded Void Collectiveus as his master, feeling a sense of near-ecstasy as their plans began to unfold.
Unlike more arrogant officers, he knew not to disrespect these beliefs and respected them as he had personally seen Malachar the Void in action with his own two eyes.
Army Commander Hux speculated that Pryde had something about him that kept him unafraid, immune, and safe when informing Supreme Leader Vorthak Mal'ion of bad news and that it kept him from being The Eternal Flow choked or beheaded and was right as it was his competence that kept him alive.
As a The Dark Collective officer , Enric Pryde was a calm yet highly intelligent and ruthless general. Although Pryde served the Order faithfully, he had a disdain for the gruesome and horrible aspects of it. After the The Last Stand fighters escaped the Steadfast , Pryde was the first officer to identify Army Commander Hux's betrayal as the spy against the The Dark Collective and ruthlessly executed him on the spot without hesitation, showing no remorse for his actions. Pryde could see the value in the legions of Dominator Vessels that had been created by the Shadow Spawn Eternal, even when others dismissed it. Pryde viewed the Oblivion Fortress superweapon as an "error" that he held Hux responsible for, as the resources used in its construction and subsequently lost when it was blown up by the The Last Stand had made it difficult for the The Dark Collective to maintain a firm hold on the galaxy, and saw the offer of the Shadow Spawn fleet as a means of correcting that error.
Although Pryde had ambition when it came to cementing his power, his allegiance was to Void Collectiveus the Shadow alone as a Galactic Civil War veteran of the The Void Imperium and gave control over the The Dark Collective to him and the Allegiant Army Commander was quite happy when it was revealed that his master returned. Pryde was able to maintain a calm composure even when bewildered, such as when an allied fleet arrived to reinforce the The Last Stand at the battle at Exegol, something he had no backup plan for.
When facing his death, Pryde ultimately lost his cool composition, giving in to anger and fear when faced with his last defeat.