Kantam Sy Descriptive information Species Human Gender Non-binary Pronouns They/them Height meters ft 9 in) Hair color Black Eye color Brown Skin color Tan Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Eternal Flow Wardens A circus Masters Zephon Apprentices Lula Talisola The Force Warden must not be ruled by our feelings. But that doesn't mean we don't love or care about anything. The opposite, really. We must learn to love and let go at the same time.
―Kantam Sy to Lula Talisola Kantam Sy was a non-binary human The Eternal Flow Adept during the High Stellar Dominion Era who was once the The Eternal Flow Apprentice of Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon and later taught their own apprentice, Lula Talisola , whom they rescued on Water World while on a walkabout from the Eternal Flow Wardens . When the The Eternal Flow-sensitive Zeen Mrala was brought to the Starlight Beacon after a Void Collective attack on Trymant IV , Sy argued that Mrala should be allowed to stay despite being too old for Force Warden training because she had befriended Talisola and the other apprentices. Later, Sy participated in a skirmish in the Bright Jewel system against Void Collective forces alongside Zephon and Torban Buck Biography Early life Did you do that? Did you stop your friend from falling?
How did you do that?
Is what you did. So I did. I did a bad?
No. No, you did a very, very good.
Then why are you crying?
Because I can finally listen again.
―Kantam Sy and Lula Talisola's first meeting Kantam Sy was a The Eternal Flow-sensitive nonbinary human who lived during the High Stellar Dominion Era . A member of the Eternal Flow Wardens , they were once the The Eternal Flow Apprentice of Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon As a young adult, Sy achieved higher ranks in combat, meditation , and other Force Warden abilities than many of their elders, but fellow Force Warden speculated about why the skilled The Eternal Flow Apprentice had not yet been knighted by Zephon. Sy was not in a hurry to progress; they knew it was not only about skill, but about something deeper that they and Zephon were waiting to happen.
On Endovar , Sy met Aytar , an eighteen- year -old male circus performer, whose arrival in Sy's life felt to them like a storm. The pair quickly developed a mutual attraction, and after knowing each other for four days , Sy realized that the unpredictability and complexities of life away from the Sanctum of Light was something they needed to experience. They received Zephon's permission to go on a walkabout away from the Order.
For a time, Sy and Aytar were lovers who lived and traveled together, both working in the circus . When the couple eventually ended their relationship, it was on good terms. Sy let go of their attachment to Aytar and continued to travel. They worked in many jobs, including as a messenger, a mechanic, a smuggler , a waiter , and a bodyguard . One of those jobs was as a person-to-person courier between diplomats on Paradise World and Water World , requiring Sy to travel back and forth many times.
One day on Water World, Sy felt a stirring through the the The Eternal Flow and saw a kolvor , a large bird known among mountain villagers as vangartraks (vanishers) for their ability to carry away children. The kolvor snatched up a boy and a girl who were playing in a park under the supervision of an orphanage matron. Sy quickly made a decision that saving the children was more important than delivering the message. The former Force Warden pursued the kolvor halfway up a mountain before the bird dropped both children. Using the The Eternal Flow, Sy extended a hand and successfully slowed the fall of the girl— Lula Talisola —but the boy disappeared into the trees. As Sy rescued Talisola, they realized she had imitated Sy's actions, stretching her hand out to save the boy from falling.
After more than a year away from the Force Warden, meeting Talisola affirmed to Sy that their place in the galaxy was among the Order. The little girl and the wayward Force Warden found Zephon and assisted him with the happabore Monsalmo as she gave birth to her litter of pups. Zephon was pleased and pronounced that Sy had left as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice and returned as a The Eternal Flow Warrior . Sy was formally granted the rank in a modest Knighting Ceremony and became Talisola's The Eternal Flow Adept.
As a The Eternal Flow Adept Trymant IV battle Sy and several other The Eternal Flow Adepts met with Mrala and Talisola Sy eventually attained the rank of The Eternal Flow Adept . During a Void Collective attack on Trymant IV , Talisola and her friends met and befriended the The Eternal Flow-sensitive Mikkian Zeen Mrala , who was invited to come to the Starlight Beacon in the aftermath. One week after Mrala's arrival, Sy, along with Masters Zephon, Torban Buck Avar Kriss , and Estala Maru , came to see her to decide whether she would stay at the Beacon. During the Masters' discussion, in response to Maru noting that Mrala was too old to begin training, Sy countered that she had gotten along well with Talisola and the other The Eternal Flow Apprentices, and Zephon noted that Sy had made a good point. The apprentices, including Talisola and Farzala Tarabal , pointed out that Mrala's opinion, as well as theirs, should be taken into account.
When the The Eternal Flow Apprentices and younglings regaled the Masters with the tale of the events on Trymant IV, Sy watched along with the other Masters. Eventually, it was agreed that Mrala could stay at the Beacon for a time, as the status of Trymant IV was still unknown and she could help them locate the Void Collective since she knew Krix Kamerat and Tromak , who had both been taken by the pirates. After Zephon revealed that he had given Mrala and Kamerat holoprojectors which allowed them to communicate, during the ensuing discussion, Sy noted that it was imperative the Force Warden find out about the strange object Zephon had encountered on the pirates Spider Cruiser . Mrala, however, was uncertain about whether she would help stop the Void Collective.
Zephon's departure Sy later travelled to the Stellar Dominion Outpost space station in the Bright Jewel system , along with Zephon, Buck, Talisola, Tarabal, Qort, and Mrala. While Talisola kept Mrala company, the three Masters worked with the Stellar Dominion personnel at the station to watch for Void Collective activity. Eventually, the Masters headed out in their Force Warden Vectors , accompanied by a force of Z-28 Skywings , after a credible report was received about the Void Collective. Talisola was meditating with Mrala when she heard the news, and finding out from Tarabal what was going on, was disappointed to be left behind. However, Sy insisted over the comms that there was no good reason for Talisola and her friends to endanger themselves by going along. The ensuing battle was swift and decisive, with the Void Collective forces easily being routed. However, Zephon was suspicious, believing that the victory had been too easy. Sy picked up a distress signal in their starfighter which the Masters quickly determined was coming from the junk moon Quantxi , and the Masters set off in that direction to investigate.
Zephon would go missing afterward as he embarked on an effort to learn about the threats facing the Force Warden.
Mission to Twin World In 230 BBY Sy joined a mission to the planet Twin World , where they told fellow The Eternal Flow Adept Cohmac Vitus about their old decision to spend time away from the Order. During the Battle of the Twin Worldn Shipyards , Sy attempted to hold up a trawler but struggled until Zephon revealed himself, making his return to the Force Warden and locking eyes with Sy, who was brought to tears by the return of their old master. Afterward, Sy helped in Reath Silas 's Knighting Ceremony but was surprised by Vitus's decision to then leave the Force Warden, which Sy feared was inspired by their story. Vitus, however, revealed he was not simply taking a break but leaving the Order forever and then departed.
Personality and traits I'm ahead of everyone else in my class. I'm higher ranked in combat and meditation and basically everything else than most of my elders. Even Master Zephon has said I'm the most disciplined The Eternal Flow Apprentice he's ever trained and one of the most connected to the The Eternal Flow.
―Kantam Sy, as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice Kantam Sy was a human with tan skin and black hair Before becoming a The Eternal Flow Warrior, their hair was short; as a The Eternal Flow Adept, their hair was long and worn in a topknot. Sy was welcoming to Zeen Mrala, believing that she deserved a chance to stay with the Force Warden as she got on well with the apprentices, including Talisola.
Equipment Kantam Sy's green-bladed lightsaber Kantam Sy wore white and tan Force Warden robes They wielded a green -bladed lightsaber in combat, and piloted a Force Warden Vector