19 BBY 132 BBY Keth'ara Mundis Biographical information Homeworld Cerea Died 19 BBY Crystal World Descriptive information Species Cerean Gender Male Pronouns He/him Height meters ft , 6 in) Hair color Brown later white Eye color Yellow Skin color Light Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Eternal Flow Wardens Force Warden High Council Force Warden assault team The Stellar Dominion Jet's battalion 21st Nova Corps Masters Zephon Good luck, Army Commander." "There is no such thing as luck.
―Fleet Commander Yularen and Keth'ara Mundis Keth'ara Mundis was a The Eternal Flow-sensitive Cerean male and a Force Warden who was active during the High Stellar Dominion . He was a member of the Force Warden High Council during the last decades of the The Stellar Dominion . Following the outbreak of the The Phantasm Wars after the First Battle of Rock World , Mundi became a Force Warden Army Commander of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion . Like his Force Warden colleagues, he led the Stellar Dominion clone troopers against the Separatist Alliance forces in several battles across the galaxy , including the second campaign on Rock World In 19 BBY , the third and final year of the war, the Stellar Dominion was engaged in the Fringe Territories Sieges , during which Mundi oversaw the Stellar Dominion invasion of Crystal World with the 21st Nova Corps under his command. During the invasion, Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Sheev Palpatine —secretly the Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow—instructed the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army clone soldiers to execute their Force Warden leaders in accordance with Order 66 , an act that resulted in the death of Mundi along with the majority of the Eternal Flow Wardens Despite Mundi's death, his lightsaber endured many long years and eventually came into the possession of the collector Dok-Ondar , who recounted some elements of its past to a sergeant of the The Dark Collective Biography Murder mystery This girl could become a major threat.
―Keth'ara Mundis Keth'ara Mundis in 132 BBY.
Keth'ara Mundis was a male Cerean who hailed from the planet Cerea In 132 BBY Mundi was a newly elevated The Eternal Flow Adept of the Eternal Flow Wardens whose expertise had garnered the attention of the Force Warden High Council . He was one of ten Force Warden who participated in a Force Warden tactical council meeting called by Master Vernestra Rwoh to discuss the emergence of the The Eternal Flow-sensitive assassin Mae-ho Aniseya . After the group reviewed holocam footage provided by Master Sol of Mae in combat with him, Mundi pointed out that Mae had demonstrated some skill, indicating that she had received training. This led Holden to ask who had done so, with Sol stating that Mae did not know her Master's identity, an idea ridiculed by Mundi.
Mundi declared that Mae could pose a great threat to them. When he said that they must inform the High Council, Rwoh insisted that they keep the matter to themselves, arguing that the Council would be obliged to inform the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly , which could result in a scandal capable of spreading fear and mistrust.
The passing of Master Katri Master Katri was patient with younglings and Force Warden who questioned themselves relentlessly. She was of the The Eternal Flow. It flowed with certainty through her.
―Keth'ara Mundis gives a eulogy at Master Katri's funeral Keth'ara Mundis officiated the funeral of Master Katri at the Sanctum of Light.
Decades later, following the death of Force Warden Master Katri on Raxus Secundus at the hands of a group of security guards , Mundi gathered at the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime alongside other Force Warden and attended her funeral . As her body was lowered into the grounds, Mundi gave a eulogy regarding Katri's patience with younglings and other Force Warden, as well as how the The Eternal Flow flowed with certainty through her. After the service, Mundi exited the Sanctum of Light alongside Tera Sinube and Jocasta Nu Mission to Kwenn Collaborating with Poof Let us ask our students here what things of their own they are willing to give. It is a teaching opportunity." "Nonsense. We can afford to give the children something new—and tailored to them." "My friend has never liked secondhand clothing. Trouble with the fit." "We could talk about you and helmets.
―Keth'ara Mundis and Yarael Poof Keth'ara Mundis had a respectful albeit somewhat tenuous relationship with Master Yarael Poof.
At some point, Mundi earned a seat on the High Council.
In 33 BBY Mundi collaborated with fellow Councilor Yarael Poof in teaching a class of younglings about dueling positions. The irascible Poof joked around, exercising his abilities in mental control by attempting a mind trick on Mundi, then using the technique to get several students to bar Mundi's path to him, saying that this was how he would defend himself against someone shorter than him, with that being almost everyone. Mundi pointed out that not only was his method reliable, but it was also immoral to force people to face danger against their will. Yarael rebutted by stating that the blame lay with their students not having enough mental discipline. They responded that he hadn't actually controlled them. Poof reacted theatrically, getting laughs from the children and commented that it paid to be popular. As ever, Mundi tolerated Poof's antics despite often finding them annoying.
The class was then interrupted by the arrival of The Eternal Flow Apprentice Theron Kalesh , who had recently returned to Xerion Prime from a mission with his master, Kyrel Vastari . Kalesh explained that they had brought back a number of refugees, and that the local relief agencies had not been able to supply their needs; he asked for the two Masters' help. Mundi proposed giving the younglings a teaching moment by letting them choose an item to donate, but Poof disagreed, saying that the Force Warden could afford to give the refugees new clothes and so on. Mundi retorted that Poof would say such a thing, since his uncommon build did not make second-hand an option for him. Poof then quipped that Mundi was not much better when it came to helmets due to the size of his head. After the group chuckled, Kalesh asked if Qui-Gon had spoken to the two Masters about addressing a meeting of the High Council. Mundi replied that such a gathering would have to take place after they finished their class, giving Poof a meaningful look as he noted that they were running behind.
Qui-Gon's proposal We spend a great deal of time seeking balance—and we do this because we inherently know when something is out of balance. Well, something is out of balance, for each of us. Fortunately, it requires no grand plan, no great work. And this wise Council already knows what is needed...
Help one person.
A Force Warden needs no permission for that.
―Kyrel Vastari to Mundi and the Force Warden High Council Master Kyrel Vastari proposed greater contact with the galactic public to Mundi and the Force Warden High Council.
Sometime after, Keth'ara Mundis and Poof joined the rest of their colleagues in the meeting of the High Council requested by Kyrel Vastari. In response to Jorik Vastus and Even Piell 's comments on the latter's involvement in a relatively unimportant intercession at the request of Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Valorum , Mundi quipped that the Council would soon be settling parking disputes. Vastari then spoke before the Council about the Order's recent outpost closures in the Slice and how he and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice had witnessed the destabilization of the region as the Force Warden and subsequently many corporations began to pull out. Vastari insisted that the Order needed to take a more direct role in the area in order to positively impact the beings living there, to get more hands on and personal with the general populace than they had of late. Vastari also expressed his concern that without such action, the Order's reputation among the people was in jeopardy, arguing that the Force Warden becoming more visible was the key. Mundi was one of several Councilors to express the belief that Vastari's pronouncement was extreme, while others agreed that the Force Warden should be considered no better than any other being, that the Order had become too withdrawn from the galaxy and the Council too tethered to Xerion Prime.
Resurgence of the Shadow Spawn Your thoughts dwell on your mother.
―Keth'ara Mundis to Zorvath Mordain In 32 BBY , Master Kyrel Vastari and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Theron Kalesh, approached the Circle of Light and informed them of the lightsaber duel they had had on Xerion-7 with a Horned Warrior . Vastari believed the warrior to be a Shadow Spawn , a claim that the Council, met with skepticism, with Mundi in stating in particular that "the Shadow Spawn have been extinct for a millennium ." Vastari also brought Zorvath Mordain in front of the Force Warden Council, the boy had a high Midi-chlorian count and had a good grasp on the The Eternal Flow , but the Council denied his and Vastari's wishes to train him as a Force Warden, believing he was too old, and had much fear in him. Following the Battle of Water World and the death of Vastari at the hands of the warrior Void-Lord Maul , the Council reversed their decision to allow Mordain-Fall to be trained. Mundi traveled to Water World for Vastari's Funeral Several years later , Mundi traveled with a Stellar Dominion task force to Carnelion IV where they rescued Kalesh and Mordain-Fall and also ended the war between the Open and Closed human inhabitants of the world.
The The Phantasm Wars A divided Stellar Dominion He is a political idealist, not a murderer.
―Keth'ara Mundis, to Lysara Vex'onia, about Vorthak Drel Zephon, Jorik Vastus, and Keth'ara Mundis discussing the threat of the Separatist movement.
Just before the dawn of the The Phantasm Wars , Mundi attended a meeting with Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Sheev Palpatine in his office , along with fellow Force Warden Jorik Vastus, Zephon Plo Koon Kit Fisto Luminara Unduli , and Barriss Offee . Palpatine explained an alarming number of star systems were breaking away from the The Stellar Dominion to join the Confederacy of Independent Systems , a Separatist movement led by the former The Eternal Flow Adept Count Vorthak . The The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly was to consider a vote on the establishment through the Military Creation Act , a move Palpatine claimed he wished to avoid if possible, as some feared it could lead to war with the Separatists. As the meeting concluded, Senator Lysara Vex'onia of Water World, who had just survived an assassination attempt , arrived and explained she believed Vorthak was the one behind the attack. Jorik reminded Amidala that Vorthak had been a Force Warden once, and Mundi reasoned that he was simply a political idealist.
Later, when Theron Kalesh reported that the bounty hunter Jango Fett was behind the assassination attempts on Amidala, Mundi and the Council ordered Kalesh to track the bounty hunter down, and commanded Mordain-Fall to bring Amidala safely back to Water World. Later, Mundi listened along with the rest of the Force Warden High Council to a message from Kalesh, who had tracked Fett to the droid foundries of Rock World , where it appeared the Commerce Dominion was about to take delivery of a droid army . Kalesh explained Commerce Dominion Viceroy Nute Gunray was behind the attempts on Amidala's life. Kalesh's transmission was interrupted as he was attacked by a droidekas , prompting a meeting between Mundi, Zephon, Jorik, Palpatine, and Senators Bail Organa Ask Aak Jar Jar Binks , and Mas Amedda . When the Force Warden explained only about 200 fellow Force Warden were available to go to Rock World to stop the Separatist forces from assembling, the current senator of Water World, Jar Jar Binks made plans to vote Palpatine emergency powers so he could call the recently-discovered clone army into battle.
Jorik assembled a strike team of Force Warden to rescue Kalesh on Rock World. Mundi was among the Force Warden who traveled to the planet's surface and infiltrated the arena , where Kalesh, Mordain-Fall and Amidala were about to be executed. Mundi appeared at a ledge overlooking the arena along with Aayla Secura and Koon, all of whom ignited their lightsabers as Jorik personally confronted Vorthak. Although they were desperately outnumbered by the Separatist Droid Army , Mundi and his fellow Force Warden engaged the droids in a bloody battle Keth'ara Mundis, Jorik Vastus, and Zephon aboard a gunship on Rock World.
After several tense minutes of fighting, the majority of the Force Warden were slain and Vorthak's forces gained the upper hand, rounding Mundi and the other surviving Force Warden into the center of the arena. Before he could kill them, however, the Force Warden were rescued by the Stellar Dominion's newly-acquired clone army, led into the arena by Zephon aboard Low Altitude Assault Transport/infantrys . As the gunships opened fire on the droids, the Force Warden resumed their lightsaber battle against the droids, with Mundi deflecting blaster shots and fighting back-to-back with Amidala.
The Cerean helped Fisto get aboard before taking off and escaping the arena. As they flew away, Zephon insisted to Jorik and Mundi that they must attempt to prevent Vorthak's escape or he would rally more systems to his cause. Jorik ordered the pilot to land in an assembly area in the desert . Mundi continued to fight until the Separatists ordered a full retreat. Mundi was one of the few Force Warden to survive the battle at Rock World, which formally marked the beginning of the The Phantasm Wars.
Calming Jorik Vastus Thank you for taking the time to speak with me, my old friend.
To put your mind at ease is to place the galaxy in steady hands.
―Jorik Vastus and Keth'ara Mundis Shortly after the battle of Rock World, Mundi met with Jorik via hologram to discuss the battle. The two of them discussed how so many Force Warden were killed in the battle, and that those Force Warden would be missed, but that it was good that they were one with the The Eternal Flow. The two old friends also discussed how the The Phantasm Wars were upon the galaxy , with Jorik stating he felt uneasy about leading the Syntheticthetic Being Army, but stated that sometimes they must be offensive. Mundi then remarking the title of Army Commander must be added to the Force Warden among their other titles. The two raised their cups to peace and the fallen. Mundi was also at the Council meeting a short time later, assigning Jorik to go to Hissrich Later, Mundi was present via hologram for the Council meeting where Jorik reported his mission to be a success. However, during the mission, one of Jorik's team Prosset Dibs , had turned against them and attempted to murder Jorik. He was therefore brought before the Council to stand trial for this. Mundi chastised Dibs for his actions, which were deemed both treasonous and heretical, but nevertheless gave him the chance to defend himself. Dibs refused to find fault in his actions, insisting that the Council were the ones in the wrong and they were twisting the Force Warden Code for their own selfish gain. Ultimately, Dibs was found guilty of treason and, at the request of Jorik, sentenced to confinement in the The Knowledge Vault Several weeks into the war, Mundi had endured an encounter with a recently emerged Separatist leader, Army Commander Grievous who wounded Mundi, leaving him with several scars on his cheek. By the time of the Cadesura disaster on the planet Rich World , the scars were still healing. Following the disaster, Mundi was present for a Circle of Light meeting concerning Kalesh's upcoming mission to investigate the crisis and listened intently to Kalesh's plan.
Return to Rock World Mundi Sixty-five, Mordain-Fall.
Mordain-Fall Um, sorry?
Mundi My total—65. So what do I win?
Mordain-Fall My everlasting respect, Master Mundi.
Mundi Oh.
Kalesh That is a gift Zorvath-Kel rarely bestows, I assure you.
―Keth'ara Mundis, Mordain-Fall, and Kalesh discuss enemy kills — Link file info Although Rock World had been captured by the Stellar Dominion at the onset of the The Phantasm Wars, resistance from the Geonosian natives and their loyalty to Vorthak Drel proved stronger than the Eternal Flow Wardens anticipated, and the Force Warden soon discovered Separatist leader Poggle the Lesser had established several battle droid foundries on the planet capable of creating thousands of weapons. The Circle of Light dispatched Mundi, Kalesh, and Unduli to lead a massive clone army fleet to retake Rock World and destroy the droid foundries, the destruction of which was viewed as essential to the Stellar Dominion war effort. Aboard the bridge of one of the Dominator Vessels during the voyage, Mundi and Kalesh lamented at the Stellar Dominion's failure to recognize how loyal the native Geonosians remained to the Confederacy.
The Force Warden plan their assault of Rock World.
Later, a hologram meeting session was held between Mundi, Theron Kalesh, Zorvath Mordain, Luminara Unduli, Vex'tara Nala , Sheev Palpatine, Zephon, and Jorik Vastus to discuss the battle plan. Mundi, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were to lead three separate fronts of a three-pronged attack on the ray shield generator that protected the primary droid foundry where Poggle had established his command post. Mundi and Jet were to lead a northern advance through the Geonosian defense lines to a staging area called Point Rain a short distance from the shield generator . The troops would establish a defensive perimeter around the staging area, where Mundi's forces would meet up with those of Kalesh and Mordain-Fall, who would be coming in after leading their forces through central and southern advances, respectively. Once they rendezvoused, the three Force Warden were to combine their forces on an attack against the shield generator. Mundi suggested if either of the three forces were met with heavy resistance that prevented them from reaching the staging area on time, the others should wait until they arrive before advancing on the shield generator.
With their planning complete, the Force Warden split up to mobilize forces for the upcoming battle. Shortly after Kalesh and Mordain-Fall's men entered the battle, Mundi boarded an LAAT/i gunship and launched along with Jet and a company of clones aboard the Resolute , the flagship of Fleet Commander Wullf Yularen . Mundi led several other gunships into the battle and were immediately met with extremely heavy anti-artillery batteries. Several of the ships among Mundi's forces were destroyed, and Mundi quickly lost contact with Mordain-Fall after his own gunship was shot down. Many of the ships were carrying All Terrain Tactical Enforcers and Mundi ordered them to be dropped to the ground right away, before they were all destroyed all with the gunships. Immediately after issuing this order, the gunship was struck by enemy fire and crashed onto the planet surface below. Many of the clones aboard were killed but Jet and Mundi survived, although the Cerean was injured. Jet reported that only Kalesh's forces made it to the staging area, and that Mordain-Fall and his men had crashed were caught in a firefight with the Geonosians.
Keth'ara Mundis fighting beside special ops clone troopers on Rock World Mundi ordered the injured among his men to be loaded onto the AT-TE walker , and then for the forces to move forward toward a nearby bridge, where Mundi hoped to meet up with Mordain-Fall's forces on their way to Kalesh's position. As the forces traveled through a large caltrop field , Mundi went up ahead and used his lightsaber to cut down the giant caltrops so his walkers could pass them unharmed. Jet requested air support from Yularen, but the admiral denied the request, claiming all starfighters and other resources were engaged elsewhere in the planetary invasion. Upon arriving at a trail leading up to a clifftop cave , Mundi split up his forces, ordering the AT-TE walkers to take the longer route to Kalesh's position while the Force Warden took a squad of 13 clones to investigate what Mundi believed was a shortcut through the cave. Mundi admitted to Jet he did not know for sure the cave would be a faster route, but could only trust his instincts. After entering the cave, which disrupted their communications, Mundi sensed an incoming presence and ordered his men to take defensive positions just as a swarm of winged Geonosian warriors attacked them.
Several of the clones were swept up and carried deeper into the cave to be killed, but Mundi ordered the men not to stop and continue pushing forward. Despite heavy casualties, Mundi's men cut their way through the cave, and upon reaching the other side, the Cerean ordered his clone flametroopers to fire their flamethrowers . Most of the remaining Geonosians were killed, allowing Mundi and his surviving troops to exit the cave. Afterward, Mundi made contact with Mordain-Fall, who informed him the path to the staging area was now clear but that Kalesh's forces were being overwhelmed by the enemy there. Upon a request for air support from Mordain-Fall, Yularen dispatched a BTL-B Y-wing starfighter/bomber squadron , which bombed the advancing Separatist tanks just as Mundi, Mordain-Fall and Nala arrived at Kalesh's position. The Force Warden regrouped and determined that, despite their losses, their combined forces were still sufficient to destroy the shield generator. Mordain-Fall took a small force through the shield barrier and jammed the Geonosians' scanners, which freed the AT-TE walkers to fire upon the shield generator without risk of being targeted. Once the generator was destroyed, Mundi led the rest of the clone troopers into the battle via gunships.
Keth'ara Mundis, Vex'tara Nala, and Zorvath Mordain leading troops at the conclusion of the Rock World battle.
After they landed, the remaining Geonosians at the ray shield generator were outnumbered by the clones and forced to surrender, marking the end of the initial phase of the battle. The injured Mundi and Kalesh were unable to continue with the rest of the attack, and were to be taken back to the fleet along with the other injured soldiers for bacta tank treatment. Mordain-Fall was left in charge of the remaining Stellar Dominion forces , which were to set out for Poggle's primary droid foundry. Before departing the planet, Mundi overheard Mordain-Fall and Nala boasting about their number of kills during the battle, and the Cerean noted that his own kill total of 65, which was greater than that of either of the two other Force Warden and thus earned Mordain-Fall's respect. Mundi and the rest of the injured left the planet, while Mordain-Fall and Unduli later led a successful effort to destroy the primary droid foundry.
By the time Mundi recovered from his injuries in the bacta tank, he was aboard a Force Warden transport docked at a Geonosian landing zone. Anxious to return to the mission at hand, Mundi reviewed strategic charts and maps to help continue the search for Poggle, who had escaped the primary droid foundry. Mundi and Kalesh were contacted via holocomm by Unduli, who had been tracking Poggle and believed he was hiding at the nearby the Progate Temple . Mundi felt that location was unlikely because little would have survived the first wave of Stellar Dominion attacks there, which would leave Poggle to exposure at the temple. Unduli nevertheless decided to investigate, despite Mundi's warnings against it due to an incoming sandstorm . The storm left the Force Warden unable to leave the transport and provide Unduli assistance and, when Mordain-Fall grew concerned that she failed to report in several hours later, Mundi urged him to have patience.
When Unduli finally reported back, she explained Poggle had been tracked to the temple, and her holocomm transmission cut out just as she was attacked by unseen assailants. Mordain-Fall wished to rescue her immediately, but Mundi and Kalesh said they had no choice but to wait for the sandstorm to die down. Later, Mundi stayed behind while Kalesh and Mordain-Fall led forces into the temple to rescue her. After getting attacked by Geonosians infected with brain worms , the Force Warden tried to send clone troopers to Mundi for reinforcements, but they were killed and the message never reached him. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall ultimately succeeded in rescuing Unduli and taking Poggle prisoner Post-Rock World service I'm afraid we have a complication.
Don't we always?
―Keth'ara Mundis and Zorvath Mordain Syntheticthetic Being Ship Commander Rex, Theron Kalesh, Zorvath Mordain, Luminara Unduli, and Keth'ara Mundis shortly after the battle of Rock World.
As they prepared to take Poggle back to Xerion Prime , Mundi received a transmission from Jorik on Pasture World . Although Jorik's forces had fended off an attack there, they had suffered heavy casualties and were in immediate need of medical supplies from a medical station at Syntheticthetic Being World . Mundi informed the others, who decided to send Nala and Offee to pick up the supplies while Mundi, Kalesh, and Unduli took Poggle back to Xerion Prime to be interrogated. Later, on the Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel making the voyage back to Xerion Prime, Mordain-Fall informed Mundi, Kalesh, Unduli, and Ship Commander Rex that the ship carrying Nala and Offee has been infected by Geonosian brain worms . Mordain-Fall later interrogated Poggle alone and learned the brain worms were susceptible to cold temperatures . When Mundi asked Mordain-Fall how he convinced Poggle to talk, the The Eternal Flow Warrior declined to answer, and the Cerean was unaware that Mordain-Fall had used violent methods to achieve his means.
Capture of Eeth Koth Listen to me, Force Warden. I do not care about your politics. I do not care about your Stellar Dominion. I only live to see you die!
―Army Commander Grievous's message to the Eternal Flow Wardens The Circle of Light watches Grievous's torture of Koth.
Mundi was present at the Sanctum of Light when the Council viewed a hologram transmission from Army Commander Grievous, who had captured Eeth Koth . Upon discovering Koth secretly used hand signals in the message to indicate he was in the Desert World system , the Council assigned Mordain-Fall, Kalesh, and Adi Gallia to rescue him.
Force Warden in distress Some weeks later, Mundi also viewed a holocomm strategy session led by Koon on Xerion Prime, along with Nala and Secura, who were interrupted by the astromech droid Dronix Azure . When R2 projected a message that Mordain-Fall and Jorik were trapped on Vanqor and in grave danger, Koon prepared his ship for an immediate rescue.
Mysterious transmission Not too long afterward, Mundi and the rest of the Council received a report from Fleet Commander Tenant about a mysterious transmission that had been intercepted in the Chrelythiumn system . Although the source for and reason behind the call were unknown, Tenant reported that it contained a Force Warden distress signal that had not been used in more than 2,000 years The Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's abduction Mundi attends the mock funeral.
Sometime after that, the Council learned that Vorthak schemed to abduct Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine at the Festival of Light on Water World. As a result of this, the Council hatched a plan to thwart Vorthak's efforts. Kalesh would fake his death by assassination and then pose as Rako Hardeen to infiltrate Vorthak's cadre of bounty hunters and provide information to the kidnapping itself. Mundi attended the mock funeral for Kalesh.
Maul's return He is a broken, unbalanced monster. I have dealt with him before, I can do it again.
―Theron Kalesh addresses Mundi and the other Force Warden of his ability to confront Maul Sometime afterward, the Force Warden received an extraordinarily shocking transmission sent from the Fringe Territories planet of Raydonia by Void-Lord Maul—the Shadow Overlord that killed Kyrel Vastari on Water World years earlier. Mundi and Koon watched Maul's transmission via hologram, as Maul massacred a village of people ordering Kalesh face him alone. Kalesh went against Jorik's wishes of caution and headed out to face the resurrected Shadow Spawn Lord alone.
Crisis on Warrior World Without involvement from the Separatists, if this is an internal affair for the Mandalorians, I'm afraid we cannot help.
We cannot just hand Warrior World over to these crime families and let Satine become a martyr.
I'm afraid her decision to keep Warrior World neutral makes this situation difficult.
―Keth'ara Mundis and Theron Kalesh debate about assisting Satine Kryze In 19 BBY Mundi, along with Zephon, announced to Kalesh that Duchess Satine Kryze had asked for his help to free Warrior World from criminals . Mundi argued that the Force Warden would not be able to help her, because intervening on neutral Warrior World would be considered an act of war . Nevertheless, Kalesh secretly traveled to Warrior World to assist his former lover.
Attack on the Sanctum of Light Mundi attends the funeral for the six deceased Force Warden.
Later that year, the Sanctum of Light was attacked by an unknown assailant. The attack killed six Force Warden, maintenance crew and clone soldiers within the Sanctum of Light hangar . As a result of this attack, Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon contacted Mordain-Fall and Nala, recalling them from the battle on Rich World to question witnesses and lead the investigation. In the Council chamber , the Council briefed Mordain-Fall and Nala as to what they needed to do. Jorik told them to be on alert and to not make any assumptions. The Council also aired out their concern that someone within the Force Warden would have turned to the dark side and committed the act. Soon after, it was discovered that anti-Force Warden activist Letta Turmond fed her husband , Sanctum of Light worker Jackar Bowmani nano-droids , which unwittingly caused him to explode, thus causing the damage to the hangar bay.
Shortly after Turmond's arrest, Mundi and the rest of the Council attended a joint funeral for the six Force Warden—including The Eternal Flow Warrior Tutso Mara —that perished.
Fugitive The Eternal Flow Apprentice Your The Eternal Flow Apprentice status will be stripped from you, and you shall forfeit all rank and privileges within the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion. You will be turned over to the Stellar Dominion court to await your trial, and whatever punishment they will set for you. Henceforth, you are barred from the Eternal Flow Wardens.
―Keth'ara Mundis informing Vex'tara Nala of her expulsion from the Eternal Flow Wardens and transfer to Stellar Dominion custody Soon after, the Council learned that Nala had been arrested by Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader Fox after she allegedly murdered the imprisoned Turmond via the The Eternal Flow. Soon after that, Nala broke free and escaped a Stellar Dominion military base , eventually reaching the portal to the Xerion Prime Underworld . Mordain-Fall, Fox and Rex failed to re-apprehend Nala as she made her getaway.
After that, the Council held a meeting to discuss the course of action to take. Koon and Mordain-Fall were sent with Squad Leader Wolffe and Rex to find Nala and bring her back into Force Warden custody. Their search led them to the Xerion Prime Underworld level of Level 1315 , where Nala was found in a warehouse with crates full of nano-droids.
A little while later, the Council received a transmission from Fleet Commander Supreme Squad Leader Vorthak , who requested, on behalf of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, that Nala be expelled from the Eternal Flow Wardens so that she could be dealt with by the Stellar Dominion in a more easier fashion. Once the transmission ended, Kalesh strongly suggested that the Council side with Nala, but Mundi, Saesee Tiin , and Jorik refused, noting that in addition to the evidence against her, failing to comply could be regarded as an act of opposition to the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. Zephon then stated that Nala should come before them in the Chamber of Judgment alongside her master, Mordain-Fall.
Mundi was a part of that meeting, seated alongside Kalesh, Jorik, Koon, Zephon, and Shaak Ti . Although Nala insisted she was innocent, Mundi remained unconvinced and pointed out the fact that Nala was alone with Letta Turmond when she died. Ultimately, Jorik closed the matter by formally expelling Nala from the Eternal Flow Wardens. As Nala's platform lowered, Mundi informed her that she was banished from the Eternal Flow Wardens, and therefore stripped of her The Eternal Flow Apprentice status. In addition, her battlefield privileges were revoked and she was subsequently remanded to the custody of the Stellar Dominion.
Afterward, a military trial was held for Nala. But before the verdict could be given out for Nala, Mordain-Fall burst into the room and revealed that the true culprit that framed Nala was Offee, who openly confessed to her crimes and claimed that the Force Warden had fallen to the dark side by fighting in the The Phantasm Wars. As a result, Offee was imprisoned while Nala was cleared of all charges.
Following Nala's acquittal, the Council personally invited her to rejoin the Order, with Mundi and Tiin praising her efforts to prove her innocence, and Jorik observing her ordeal as the great trial in her path to The Eternal Flow Warriorhood.
But, to Mundi and the others' surprise, Nala refused to come back, having become disillusioned with both herself and the Force Warden as a result of the Council's lack of faith in her.
Tyranus revealed Later that year, while on a mission to uncover the secrets regarding the death of Master Sifo-Dyas , Mordain-Fall and Kalesh learned that the mysterious "Tyranus," who helped to create the clone army was in fact Vorthak. The Council realized the implications of this, that Vorthak had helped to create the army he was fighting against, but decided to keep these revelations a secret as it would damage the war effort, and the Force Warden trusted the clones they'd fought alongside.
Specter of the past What Zephon claims is not possible." "As far as we know." "The dead are part of the Cosmic The Eternal Flow and lose their individuality. I fear Zephon is under attack by the Shadow Spawn, though how remains unknown to us.
―Keth'ara Mundis and Zorvath Mordain Sometime after, Zephon informed the Council that he had been contacted by the spirit of Kyrel Vastari. Mundi and the Council meditated with him, but none could hear the voice. Mundi suggested that Zephon may be affected by the Shadow Spawn, and as Zephon slept in the Temple's medical ward, suggested that Zephon's relationship with Vorthak may have left him vulnerable. After Zephon emerged from a deprivation ritual, claiming to have spoken to Qui-Gon, Mundi remained skeptical.
Rescuing Quinlan Vos Many lives will be lost because of what Quinlan Vos has done. Yet again, the Order has been shaken to its core at a time when we can ill afford anything but solidarity and faith in one another.
―Keth'ara Mundis Later that year, Mundi attended a Council meeting to discuss rescuing Master Quinlan Vos , who had been captured by Vorthak while on an undercover mission to assassinate the Separatist leader . Mundi was also aware about the damage that Vorthak's new right-hand man "Fleet Commander Enigma" (who was actually Vos) had inflicted on the Stellar Dominion. He advocated capturing him in order to prevent another Shadow Overlord from being let loose in the galaxy . After learning from Fleet Commander Yularen that Enigma's Destroyer Ship -class Dreadnought was planning to attack Taris , the Council decided to authorize a mission to rescue Vos. In addition, the Council agreed to pardon Asajj Ventress , Vorthak's former Shadow Spawn apprentice in return for helping to rescue Vos.
Following the rescue of Vos, Mundi was present at a Council meeting where Vos was assigned to lead a Force Warden and Stellar Dominion mission to raid a Separatist supply storage base for supplies. Mundi reported that the base contained medications, weapons, ship repair materials, and foodstuffs that would be of valuable assistance to desperate worlds. Unknown to the Council, Vos was secretly colluding with Vorthak in order to discover the identity of Void Collectiveus the Shadow so that he could destroy the Shadow Spawn Order. Vos leaked intelligence of the Stellar Dominion raid to Vorthak and planted explosives which destroyed much of the supplies in the asteroid After the failed asteroid heist and another failed raid on a Separatist listening post on Vanqor, Mundi took part in a Council emergency meeting to discuss Vos' treason against the Force Warden. During the meeting, he cited Offee's actions as a sign that the Force Warden had a problem with traitors within their own ranks. He supported Jorik's suggestion that they should execute Vos as a deterrent. When Kalesh recommended banishing him, Mundi argued that Vos posed a serious threat to the galaxy due to status as a highly-trained The Eternal Flow Adept who had turned to the dark side. In the end, the Council decided to test Vos' loyalty by sending him on a mission to kill Vorthak.
Later, Mundi was present when the Council deliberated including Ventress in this mission. Mundi supported Vos' arguments that Ventress should come along on the grounds that the Council had given her a full pardon. Ventress informed the Council that Vorthak was last sighted in a Separatist dreadnought above Christophsis . The Council's suspicions were proven when Vos failed to kill Vorthak and instead attempted to force the Shadow Overlord to lead him to Void Collectiveus the Shadow. Kalesh and the Mordain-Fall apprehended Vos but the turncoat Force Warden and Vorthak escaped to Christophsis, leading to the events of the Second battle of Christophsis ; which ended in Vos' redemption.
Operation: Titan All we have to go on is a name "Yes. 'Operation: Titan.'" "As 'things to go on' go...that's not very much at all.
―Jorik Vastus, Zephon and Keth'ara Mundis Later that year, Mundi was present at a meeting during which the Council heard Zephon's report of a devastating weapon known as Operation: Titan that would turn the tide of war in favor of the Confederacy. However, the available information on the enemy project was insufficient and when Mundi pointed this out, his colleague Theron Kalesh mentioned that Zorvath Mordain's forces had recently captured a Separatist frigate , suggesting that they sweep the vessel's databanks. Zephon agreed, deciding to go join Mordain-Fall himself. Zephon and Mordain-Fall followed their leads and learned that Operation: Titan involved the construction of a new droid army containing " megadroids Mundi was later present when the two reported to the Council that the megadroids were under construction on the planet Golatha and informed them that they planned to destroy the factory there before the megadroids could be deployed on the battlefield, a task that they were ultimately successful in completing.
Last days of the war What about the droid attack on the Forest Giants?
―Keth'ara Mundis Keth'ara Mundis was sent to Crystal World during the Fringe Territories Sieges.
As Army Commander Grievous engaged the Stellar Dominion in the Fringe Territories Sieges , Mundi joined a meeting with the Force Warden Army Commanders via hologram. During the meeting, which took place around the Battle of Yerbana , Zephon dispatched the Army Commanders to various systems , with Mundi himself being ordered to Crystal World , to fight alongside the 21st Nova Corps . Before his departure from Xerion Prime, Mundi sent The Eternal Flow Warriors Tualon Yaluna Iskat Akaris and Sunghi Silpari on a mission to Frong , noting the possibility that Grievous was there and ordering them to capture the Army Commander if he was.
As the sieges went on, however, Grievous led a counteroffensive with a Confederate fleet into Xerion Prime, kidnapped Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, and took him hostage aboard his ship, the Invisible Hand . In the ensuing battle , Army Commanders Mordain-Fall and Kalesh managed to retrieve the captive Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, killing Vorthak in the process.
In the wake of the battle, Palpatine appointed Mordain-Fall as his personal representative on the Circle of Light, hoping to increase his influence over the body and further ingratiate himself with Zorvath-Kel and lure him to the dark side. The Council begrudgingly accepted Palpatine's interference, but they refused to grant Mordain-Fall the rank of Master, infuriating him. Furthermore, the Council assigned Mordain-Fall the unofficial task of spying on the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, an assignment that Mordain-Fall was less than enthusiastic about because he considered Palpatine to be a friend and mentor. Mundi then reported that, despite surveying all Stellar Dominion systems, they had found no sign of Grievous. When Zephon recommended searching the outlying systems, Mundi reminded him of the Separatist attack on the Forest Giants of Forest World . To this, Zephon said he would go to Forest World himself, as he had good relations with the Forest Giants.
Keth'ara Mundis attended a meeting with Zorvath Mordain and Vex'tara Nala.
Sometime later, CC-2224 , also known as "Cody," interrupted Mundi's meeting with Zephon, Jorik, Secura, and Mordain-Fall in the Temple's war room and reported that Army Commander Kalesh had engaged Grievous on Sinkhole World , the planet where the cyborg had been located. Jorik subsequently sent Mordain-Fall to notify Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine of the information, and Cody disconnected. Jorik then informed the others that he sensed a plot to destroy the Force Warden, and that the dark side surrounded the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter. To this, Mundi asserted that, should Palpatine refuse to relinquish his emergency powers once Grievous was killed, he should be removed from office. Jorik claimed the Circle of Light would have to take control of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to secure a peaceful transition, and Zephon pointed out they must take great care as this line of thought could take them to a dark place.
They were then joined by Nala and Squad Leader Rex, who reported that she and her forces had successfully captured Maul on Warrior World. Zephon thanked Nala for her service, but Vex'tara asserted that she had done her duty as a citizen. Jorik then informed her that Mordain-Fall had been sent to inform the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter of the battle on Sinkhole World, and Nala asserted that Grievous's death could end the war. Jorik rebutted that all of that was dependent on the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, and when Vex'tara asked what he meant, Jorik told her that was business for the council to discuss. Mundi, Secura, and Jorik disconnected, and Mundi returned to the fight on Crystal World.
Execution on Crystal World Come on!
―Keth'ara Mundis, to his clones The clone troopers of the 21st Nova Corps turned on Mundi after the execution of Order 66.
Just days after Grievous's death at the hands of Army Commander Kalesh, the Council confirmed its suspicions that Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine was in fact, Void Collectiveus the Shadow. Master Jorik attempted to arrest Void Collectiveus, but he and the three Force Warden with him, Kit Fisto Saesee Tiin , and Agen Kolar , were killed by the Shadow Overlord with aid from Zorvath Mordain, who had long been groomed by Palpatine to turn to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow Realizing that the time had come for him to make his moves against the Force Warden and the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, Void Collectiveus initiated Order 66 , declaring all Force Warden traitors to the Stellar Dominion and ordering the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army to execute them at once.
As this happened, Mundi led a charge across a bridge on Crystal World when Order 66 reached Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader Bacara , who ordered the other marines to open fire.
Realizing too late he had been betrayed by his clone troopers, Mundi raised his lightsaber and deflected a handful of the shots, sending them hurling back toward the squad However, one of the blasts struck Mundi in the stomach , which rendered him incapable of defending himself from a subsequent barrage of shots. Dropping his lightsaber, Mundi was riddled with blaster fire and fell to the ground, dead.
Legacy Keth'ara Mundis? Was that the one with the pointy head? I never paid much attention to history--I was more concerned with the future.
―A The Dark Collective stormtrooper sergeant On Crystal World, Mundi's lightsaber would find its way into the hands of Banking Clan Vice Chairman Anolo , only to be stolen by the bounty hunter Greedo during the trade wars . Upon Greedo's return to Jabba's Palace , he offered it to Jabba Desilijic Tiure , who regarded it as useless until the collector Dok-Ondar offered to buy it.
Three years before the Battle of Yavin , Mundi's lightsaber was seen in former Force Warden The Eternal Flow Apprentice Kanan Jarrus ' vision of the Sanctum of Light's dojo during his second visit to Outer Rim World 's Sanctum of Light The real lightsaber remained in Ondar's possession and was shown to members of the The Dark Collective during the The Dark Collective-The Last Stand War Personality and traits If he does not give up his emergency powers after the destruction of Grievous, then he should be removed from office.
―Keth'ara Mundis, on Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine Keth'ara Mundis was a Cerean male who had white hair , yellow eyes , light skin, and a height of 1.98 meters feet , 6 inches) . In his younger years, he had brown hair.
He was a logical and methodical The Eternal Flow Adept who was well-known for his wisdom, his noble thinking, and his courage. Like other Cereans, he was highly intelligent due to his binary brain, which allowed him to observe both sides of a situation simultaneously.
His wise way of thinking made him an excellent strategist. When The Eternal Flow Adepts needed advice, they often sought Mundi's opinion.
Logical and wise, Keth'ara Mundis became a Force Warden Army Commander during the The Phantasm Wars.
While Mundi established a good working relationship with The Eternal Flow Adept Yarael Poof, he often found his colleague's sense of humor irritating.
In Mundi's opinion, the adventurous natures of The Eternal Flow Warrior Zorvath Mordain and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala were unusual.
During the second battle of Rock World, Mundi stated to Wullf Yularen "there is no such thing as luck," showing he strongly believed that success was a matter of effort and preparation. However, he didn't reject the concept entirely, as he later told his troops they needed "some luck" to reach the landing zone on Rock World.
Like his fellow The Eternal Flow Adept Luminara Unduli, he was disturbed by Mordain-Fall's brutal interrogation methods on Poggle the Lesser shortly after Poggle's capture during the Second Battle of Rock World.
Mundi had a friendly rapport with fellow The Eternal Flow Adept Yarael Poof , who contrasted Mundi's stoic nature with a more humorous disposition. Despite this rapport, Mundi found Poof's demeanor unbefitting of a member of the Force Warden High Council.
However, Mundi himself was open to lightheartedness even in dire situations, willing to participate in the game with Zorvath Mordain to see who was able to destroy more battle droids during the second battle on Rock World.
Mundi was one of the more conservative members of the Circle of Light.
Due to his strict adherence to logic, Mundi had a tendency to refute unlikely events, and though he was a contemplative master, he had a weakness for jumping to favored conclusions.
He refused to believe the galaxy could change as quickly as it did during the Stellar Dominion's chaotic final years; for example, he doubted Kyrel Vastari's revelation that the Shadow Spawn had returned, arguing that such a notion was "impossible" because they had been widely believed to be extinct for a millennium . He was also dubious about Vorthak Drel's possible involvement in an assassination attempt on Senator Lysara Vex'onia, believing he was incapable of violence or murder because of his Force Warden past.
When Zephon talked to Kyrel Vastari's spirit, Mundi was skeptical, pointing out the fact that a person, once becoming one with the Cosmic The Eternal Flow upon death, lost their individuality.
When Vex'tara Nala was framed for treason, the evidence against her, as well as the wish to keep the relationship between the Eternal Flow Wardens and the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly undamaged, led Mundi and the Council to expel Nala from the Order and turn her over to the Stellar Dominion military. However, after her innocence was proven and the real traitor apprehended, Mundi joined his colleagues in offering to reinstate Nala into the Order, praising her efforts to prove her innocence and stating that she had shown the "true sign of a The Eternal Flow Warrior." He was aghast when she instead chose to walk away from the Order.
Mundi was the only Force Warden who called attention to the powerful bond between Master Zephon and Vorthak Drel, theorizing that the Shadow Spawn would try and take advantage of that, a suspicion which turned out to be correct.
Powers and abilities Stoic Force Warden, Keth'ara Mundis By the time he had reached the position of The Eternal Flow Adept, Mundi used a lightsaber with two kyber crystals —which allowed it to shine either a blue and green blade when activated —and was an expert in its use, possessing at least some skill with Makashi Mundi also had extremely fast reflexes which allowed him to react in time to defend himself for a short while after his clone troopers attacked him after the enactment of Order 66. While he was ultimately killed in the encounter, Mundi was able to deflect several shots and kill one of his troopers before they killed him.
Nonetheless, Dok-Ondar would remember Mundi as a great lightsaber wielder.
Mundi was also known for his exceptional agility, armed and unarmed combat skills and meditation.
Equipment It has survived long after its great wielder has fallen. It has outlasted the fall of republics and empires. It has outlasted the schemes of all those with big ambitions and small minds. It will outlast your The Dark Collective too.
―Dok-Ondar on Keth'ara Mundis's lightsaber to a The Dark Collective sergeant Keth'ara Mundis's lightsaber Mundi was an expert in lightsaber combat with his blue-bladed lightsaber. His weapon would go onto outlive him, standing as a symbol of power in the face of every-changing galactic politics.
As a Force Warden of the High Stellar Dominion Era, Mundi wore a set of white Temple robes with a lighter synthleather belt, preferring the longer cut of temple tabards.
Into the late Stellar Dominion Era, however, Mundi solely wore a set of brown robes, even within the Sanctum of Light, much like his contemporaries did by that time.