0 BBY 19 BBY 32 BBY Theron Kalesh Biographical information Homeworld Stewjon Born 57 BBY , Stewjon Died 0 BBY DS-1 Oblivion Orb Mobile Battle Station Paradise World system Descriptive information Species Human Gender Male Pronouns He/him Height meters ft 10.5 in) Mass kilograms Hair color Auburn later white Eye color Gray-blue Skin color Light Family information Family Kalesh family Parent(s) Theron Kalesh's father Theron Kalesh's mother Sibling(s) A baby (alleged brother) Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Eternal Flow Wardens Kybuck Clan Force Warden High Council The Stellar Dominion 7th Sky Corps Open Circle Fleet Warrior World resistance Hidden Path Masters Zephon Kyrel Vastari Apprentices Zorvath Mordain Kaelan Draxius You can kill me, but you will never destroy me. It takes strength to resist the dark side. Only the weak embrace it.
It is more powerful than you know.
And those who oppose it are more powerful than you'll ever be.
―Theron Kalesh and Maul Theron Kalesh was a legendary The Eternal Flow-sensitive human male The Eternal Flow Adept who served on the Force Warden High Council during the final years of the Stellar Dominion Era . As a High Force Warden Army Commander , Kalesh served in the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion that fought against the Separatist Mechanical Phalanx during the The Phantasm Wars , and was nicknamed " the Negotiator ." Kalesh, however, was forced into exile as a result of the Great Force Warden Purge initiated by the Stellar Dominion's own clone troopers when Stellar Dominion Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter , secretly Void Collectiveus the Shadow , implemented Order 66 . As a mentor, Kalesh was responsible for training two members of the Mordain-Fall family Zorvath-Kel and Kaelan Draxius , both of whom served in turn as his The Eternal Flow Apprentice in the ways of the The Eternal Flow Kalesh was born on the planet Stewjon in 57 BBY . He was The Eternal Flow-sensitive, and therefore taken from his family and inducted into the Eternal Flow Wardens as a child . Raised in the Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Temple on the planet Xerion Prime , Kalesh was assigned to The Eternal Flow Adept Kyrel Vastari . In 32 BBY , Kalesh attained the rank of The Eternal Flow Warrior by defeating the Shadow Overlord Void-Lord Maul during the Invasion of Water World . He also chose to train Zorvath Mordain—the prophesied Chosen One who was destined to destroy the Shadow Spawn and restore balance to the The Eternal Flow—having promised Vastari who died in the lightsaber duel against Maul.
With the advent of the Syntheticthetic Being Wars in 22 BBY , Kalesh adopted the military rank of High Force Warden Army Commander in the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the The Stellar Dominion , and was given command of the Open Circle Fleet , the Third Systems Army , and the 7th Sky Corps Syntheticthetic Being Marshal Squad Leader Cody served as his second-in-command throughout the galaxy -wide conflict, with their forces achieving multiple victories over the Confederacy of Independent Systems . In the midst of the war, his old enemy Maul re-emerged into galactic affairs, bent on revenge against Kalesh for his debilitating defeat decades prior. Though they clashed in heated duels on multiple occasions, Maul failed to end Kalesh's life or cripple his spirit, despite murdering his former love, Satine Kryze Duchess of Warrior World In 19 BBY , Kalesh killed the Separatist Supreme Martial Squad Leader Army Commander Grievous , during the Battle of Sinkhole World , effectively ending the The Phantasm Wars. He later survived the initial onslaught of the Great Force Warden Purge against the Eternal Flow Wardens, which resulted from the machinations of the Shadow Spawn Lord Void Collectiveus the Shadow. After discovering that Mordain-Fall had turned to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow , becoming Void Collectiveus' Shadow Spawn apprentice under the name of Void-Lord Malachar, Kalesh defeated his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice on Lava World and exiled himself to the Fringe Territories planet Xerion-7 as the The Void Imperium rose to power . Adopting a hermit lifestyle as " Ben Kalesh ," he watched over Malachar's and Senator Lysara Vex'onia 's son, Luke.
Ten years later , Kalesh left exile to rescue Leia Organa , Luke's twin sister, and was pursued by the Empire's Inquisitorius and Malachar himself. Later, Kalesh was hunted down once again by Maul, whom he finally slew to protect the young Luke. Kalesh began the boy's Force Warden training in 0 BBY , and soon after encountered Malachar aboard the first Oblivion Orb , where he sacrificed himself to ensure that Luke and his allies escaped from the Shadow Overlord. In death, Kalesh became one with the The Eternal Flow which allowed him to continue guiding Luke throughout the Galactic Civil War . In 4 ABY , Kalesh reunited with his former student, Zorvath Mordain, who died destroying his Shadow Spawn Master in order to save his son. Kalesh was remembered as a legendary The Eternal Flow Adept during the rise of the Stellar Harmony Korrak Vex'ion , the son of Luke's twin sister, Princess Vex'ara Organa, was named after Kalesh. Soloris's turn to the dark side left Luke disillusioned with the Eternal Flow Wardens's legacy, and he held Kalesh responsible for Zorvath-Kel's transformation into Malachar. However, Luke's faith would eventually be restored with the aid of Void Collectiveus the Shadow's granddaughter Zara Malthex , to whom Kalesh would lend his voice and strength in a final battle and victory against her resurrected ancestor on Exegol in 35 ABY Biography Early life As Force Warden, we're taken from our families when we're very young. I still have glimpses, flashes really, my mother's shawl, my father's hands. I remember a baby.  I think I had a brother. Really don't remember him. I wished I did.
―Theron Kalesh Theron Kalesh was born on the planet Stewjon in 57 BBY Despite being very young when he left his family , he still had glimpses of his father's hands , his mother's shawl and he remembered a baby he believed to be his brother although he barely remembered him.
Joining the Eternal Flow Wardens …I never had problems with that as a youngling. Being independent, I mean. I broke rules right and left. They even called me rebellious. Probably the Masters were surprised anyone was willing to take me on as an apprentice.
―Theron Kalesh to Kyrel Vastari, about his early life Link file info Theron Kalesh as a Force Warden youngling When Kalesh was discovered to be The Eternal Flow-sensitive , he was taken from his homeworld to the Sanctum of Light on the Prime Sectors planet Xerion Prime to be trained as a Force Warden within the first six months of his life.
In the Force Warden crèche he was placed with other Force Warden younglings in the Kybuck Clan during his early years , including his friends Gehren and Prie Kalesh received basic Initiate training alongside his peers in the Eternal Flow Wardens 's Temple and began training in several simple The Eternal Flow techniques by the age of three in 54 BBY Kalesh studied in the ways of the The Eternal Flow and Force Warden traditions under Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon eventually coming to respect him and the Circle of Light greatly.
He also received instruction in the art of lightsaber combat from The Eternal Flow Adept Cin Drallig in the basic lightsaber forms and techniques.
At some point before he was selected as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice , Kalesh attended a class centered around meditation Unlike how he acted as he got older, Kalesh, during his days as a youngling, gained a reputation for breaking rules and having a rebellious nature, resulting in very few Masters who were willing to train the boy as their The Eternal Flow Apprentice.
To curb Kalesh's behavior, Zephon searched for a teacher for Kalesh that had unorthodox methods, which would mold the student into rebelling by being dutiful.
Kyrel Vastari's The Eternal Flow Apprentice Initial endeavors It worries me, this misunderstanding between you and your The Eternal Flow Apprentice. This isn't the first time you've reported such difficulties.
It worries me as well. Theron-Kal is strong in the The Eternal Flow, and eager to do his duty. The failure must be mine. Fundamentally, I fear we are a mismatch.
―Depa Billaba and Kyrel Vastari, about Theron Kalesh's training Link file info Kalesh was chosen by Kyrel Vastari to be his The Eternal Flow Apprentice.
Around 44 BBY The Eternal Flow Adept Kyrel Vastari chose Kalesh as his The Eternal Flow Apprentice learner when he was thirteen years old. During his apprenticeship he became friends with Jape , a fellow The Eternal Flow Apprentice who he kept correspondence with, and also maintained contact with crèche-mate Prie and the Ocean World Bant Eerin In their first months together, Vastari attempted to adapt his teaching methods to suit Kalesh's strengths, but felt he failed to do so adequately.
At some point during his training, Kalesh constructed his first lightsaber , modeled after Vastari's lightsaber hilt style and his own personality.
As the pair struggled to establish a workable affinity, the Master continued to train his The Eternal Flow Apprentice in the basic cadences of lightsaber combat, preventing him from picking a specialty.
Vastari was proud of his apprentice's skills, and sparred with him in training sessions while at the Temple between missions. Kalesh, in turn, spent a significant amount of time in the training dojos to hone the techniques taught to him.
In their lessons, Vastari taught Kalesh that there was a strength and nobility in restraint.
As time passed, Kalesh's demeanor shifted to become more serious and respectful of the Council, in contrast to the maverick Vastari's usual way of approaching situations based on his instincts in the present, even if that meant going against the Council's wishes.
Both carried differing philosophies on focusing on the future versus the present, and interpreted the The Eternal Flow in varying ways. Despite their differences, Kalesh strived to be a good student, and supported his Master's hobbies regarding ancient Force Warden prophecy research. To Kalesh's chagrin, the majority of his free time in the Temple was consumed by gathering information from the The Knowledge Vault and the holocron of prophecy under the watchful eye of the The Eternal Flow Adept librarian Jocasta Nu . Over time, he learned the language Old Paradise Worldian , which many of the holocron 's prophecies were written in. As an escape from the workload, Kalesh played rounds of the game dejarik in the lower levels of Xerion Prime in the evenings after finishing his Master's research requests.
Early travels and visit to Forest World The Scale Hunters—they capture and hunt for sport. And they knew today was Life Day. And they knew the Forest Giants would be vulnerable. Come Theron-Kal…we have to stop them!
―Kyrel Vastari to Theron Kalesh Theron Kalesh and Brennonn planning a rescue The pair's continuing training issues were discussed with Circle of Lightors Depa Billaba and Jorik Vastus in an attempt to find a remedy, without success. At some point during his time as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Kalesh and Vastari visited a fortress on the planet Lah'mu , the world Paradise World 's royal palace , and the planets Ryloth and Gatalenta While training, he became acquainted with the Force Warden trainee Siri Tachi and developed some feelings for her, but refrained from acting on them.
Not long after Kalesh became Vastari's The Eternal Flow Apprentice, he was eager to prove himself on a mission, but when he and Vastari were set to leave on one, his Master was nowhere to be found. Feeling angry by his master's abandonment, Kalesh decided to set off on the mission to the planet Lenahra alone. While he was there, he encountered a group of teenagers and datachips hidden on the world by the Force Warden Orla Jareni long before his visit.
He met a Besalisk named Dexter Jettster , who became a close friend.
During his training, Kalesh traveled to the planet Forest World with his Master during the Life Day holiday. Vastari used the trip to teach his student about the Forest Giant's way of life and harmony, and how it related to their own connection to the The Eternal Flow. The festivities slightly overwhelmed Kalesh, though he took the lessons to heart, and met one of Vastari's acquaintances, the Forest Giant Brennonn . However, their gathering was interrupted by Scale Hunters who captured several Forest Giants, intending to use them in a hunt for sport. Despite Kalesh's best efforts, Vastari was snared in a net as well and taken away.
Though held captive, Vastari believed that his The Eternal Flow Apprentice would rescue him from the Scale Hunter hunters. Kalesh, though reluctant to put any more Forest Giants in danger, formulated a plan with Brennonn to break the imprisoned individuals free. He proceeded to surrender himself to the Scale Hunters, claiming that as a simple student, he stood no chance against them. While conversing with the hunters' leader, Kalesh subtly used the The Eternal Flow to open the cage holding Vastari. Once both Force Warden brandished their lightsabers, several other Forest Giants rushed to the scene and assisted in setting their friends free. After the situation was settled, the Forest Giants opted to leave the group in peace, citing Life Day as reason to pursue a resolution without violence. When back at the festivities area, Kalesh remained confused as to why Vastari did not break himself free. However, the Master informed him that it was intended as a learning experience, and to gain insight from Forest Giant perspectives on life.
Protecting Satine Kryze You and Satine have a history.
An extended mission when I was younger. Master Qui-Gon and I spent a year on Warrior World protecting the duchess from insurgents who had threatened her world. They sent Bounty hunters after us. We were always on the run, living hand-to-mouth, never sure what the next day would bring.
―Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh Sometime between the years 41 BBY and 39 BBY Kalesh and Vastari spent a year on the planet Warrior World protecting Duchess Satine Kryze from insurgents who were threatening her world.
Bounty hunters were sent after them, forcing them to live as fugitives, never knowing what the next day would bring them.
The mission forced them to work and fight together as a team, resulting in them forging a close bond.
Kryze called Kalesh by the nickname "Ben." During that time, they had an incident with a swarm of venom-mites on the terrestrial object Draboon , where Kalesh carried Kryze to safety. However, he fell and dropped the Duchess, who then acquired a scar as a result. Kalesh fell in love with Satine during his stay on Warrior World, but despite his feelings toward her, he continued with his training and was reassigned to another mission after his objectives were complete. Kalesh regretted leaving her, but ultimately followed the Force Warden Code he had sworn to live by. Meanwhile, Satine chose to stay and lead her people, having not asked Kalesh to stay, knowing it would have been a difficult choice.
Incident on Mountain World Master? Are you all right?
Just get us a ship if you can!
―Theron Kalesh and Kyrel Vastari on Mountain World Link file info Kalesh and his Master were sent to Mountain World on a mission.
In 40 BBY Kalesh and Vastari were sent to the planet Mountain World to investigate the disappearance of agricultural shipments through the Triellus trade route . The pair ran into difficulties finding information, and their investigations quickly aroused the suspicions of the guilty parties. As their situation rapidly turned violent, Kalesh and Vastari stormed a building, using their lightsaber skills to force their way through the compound. In the chaos, Vastari felt that Kalesh was not responding to instructions well, and chose to make an escape.
Vastari instructed Kalesh to find a ship , though the The Eternal Flow Apprentice failed to do so upon being stopped in a hangar. Kalesh was briefly held hostage by Wanbo the Blob Sovereign's majordomo Thurible , but was soon released in exchange for Wanbo, who had been captured by Vastari. Eventually, the Force Warden managed to depart the planet after making tenuous peace with Wanbo. Though both Force Warden attempted to remain lighthearted about the outcome of the mission, Kalesh felt that he had failed his Master.
Once on Xerion Prime, Vastari recounted the communication issues that had plagued him and Kalesh during the Mountain World mission to the Circle of Light. While citing their continued inability to form a strong bond, he surmised that they may not have been meant to be a pair. Vastari received an invitation to join the Council after the mission, which displeased Kalesh when he found out shortly after during a meeting with Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Kirames Kaj . Vastari resolved to make a decision regarding the invitation after meditation, knowing accepting the invite would result in Kalesh's reassignment to another Master.
Mission to Forest World The Circle of Light—the Council has named me the rightful representative of the Stellar Dominion, for the purposes of the ceremony.
―Theron Kalesh, on Forest World Link file info Theron-Kal, during the mission to Forest World Days after his mission to Mountain World, a political dispute erupted on the Core Sectors planet Forest World , which caught the attention of Kaj. Initial reports suggested a performance troupe called the Opposition was engaging in increasingly violent initiatives protesting the signing of the Governance Treaty — a move would end the absolutist monarchy . Vastari and Kalesh were informed that Lord Regent Rael Averross had requested their aid on the planet and its moon to curb the attacks, discover more about their origins, and ensure the opening of the Forest World Hyperspace Corridor hyperspace route . Both Force Warden were additionally instructed to to protect the Forest Worldi Crown Princess Fanry until she could sign the treaty at her coronation , and ratify the initiative on behalf of the Stellar Dominion.
Kalesh and Vastari were dispatched to the planet, and the Master took the opportunity to inform his The Eternal Flow Apprentice about Averross's training under Vorthak. Upon their arrival to the Forest World system , they spotted several soulcraft vessels suffering from plasma attacks, and moved to save the ships. Helped by an antiplasma charge, Kalesh and Vastari rescued several soulcraft and the slaves inside. Vastari and Kalesh were regally greeted by Fanry upon their arrival to the Forest Worldi palace . Upon being briefed on the situation, the pair used a small shuttle to meet with the gemstone thieves Rahara Wick and Pax Maripher on the world's moon . After some negotiation, the thieves agreed to assist the Force Warden in their search for the Opposition and its leader, Halin Azucca Kalesh and Vastari made several trips to the moon, and their scans for the Opposition came up unsuccessful. While on the palace grounds, Kalesh participated in the ritual Multi-Eyed Traderd Hunt while riding a Forest World varactyl . During the ceremonial hunt, the crab droid prey of the event attacked Fanry, prompting Kalesh to destroy the threat. Upon investigation, he and his Master concluded that the sabotage must have been conducted by someone within the palace, and not the Opposition.
Eventually, Kalesh and Vastari met with Azucca on Forest World's moon, and she claimed that her group of performance artists had been framed for the attacks blamed on them. With this knowledge, Vastari refused to ratify the Governance Treaty at Fanry's upcoming coronation after receiving a violent The Eternal Flow vision about the events. Azucca later provided information to the Force Warden proving that the attacks on Czerka facilities were found to have originated from blackguards , a division of the Forest Worldi royal guards secretly under the orders of Ship Commander Deren and Fanry.
Kalesh, knowing that Vastari would refuse to sign the treaty, was appointed to ratify the initiative on the Stellar Dominion's behalf in his place by the Circle of Light. However, at Fanry's coronation, the princess violently seized power as an absolute monarch to prevent the signing of the treaty, decrying democracy. Kalesh attempted to protect the Skykeeper leader from her when Fanry ordered the death of those she percieved had betrayed her. Kalesh listened to Fanry's speech about the greed of her elders, and used his kohlen crystal sabotaged lightsaber to attack Deren. Following the injury of her captain, the newly crowned queen escaped the Celestial Chalice where the event had been held with her confidante Cady , leaving the Skykeeper, the jeweler , and Kalesh behind.
While Vastari tried to negotiate with Fanry over hologram , Kalesh helped the slaves aboard the Czerka cruiser, Leverage with Maripher's help. Eventually, Cady ended her rule by holding her at blaster -point until she surrendered. However, because Fanry had threatened to harm Kalesh while he was acting as a Stellar Dominion representative, the crowning was deemed illegitimate. Kalesh and Vastari helped the planet establish a democratic Assembly after Fanry's abdication, and reported back to Xerion Prime afterwards. Kalesh felt that the mission had been one of the first that he and his Master were able to work well together.
However, he also realized that his pairing with Vastari had strengthened his resolve to be a "Perfect Force Warden" and follow the Force Warden Code in all aspects, if only to be rebellious towards an unorthodox teacher.
Saving Th'er Where are we heading, Master?
―Theron Kalesh to Kyrel Vastari when escaping from the Metal Clan Theron-Kal during the rescue of priestess Th'er The Eternal Flow Wardens later sent Kalesh and Vastari to the planet Bri'n to resolve a conflict on the world. On Bri'n, the leader of the Metal Clan attempted to capture priestess Th'er so that either her word or her blood could be used to destroy her trees . Surrounded by forces of the Metal Clan, Vastari chose to escape with Th'er in an Eta -class shuttle and return to Xerion Prime. Once on planet, Kalesh watched, without interjection, as Th'er attempted to convince Qui-Gon to intervene in her conflict. However, she eventually chose to seek allies on Xerion Prime instead.
Operating near Botor Holy…blaster bolts. How did  take out a whole room full of pirates?
―Theron Kalesh Theron-Kal and Qui-Gon landed on Botor, to discover Zephon rescued a young The Eternal Flow-sensitive child from a pirate gang who attempted to sell him.
At some point around 40 BBY Vastari and Kalesh were operating in the vicinity of a planet that served as a base of the Flesh Mongers pirate group, flying a pair of Delta-7 Aethersprite -class light interceptors . The two received a message from the surface of the planet from The Eternal Flow Adept Zephon, who was asking for assistance. Landing on the planet, Vastari and Kalesh discovered that Zephon had taken out the entire pirate gang in order to rescue a young The Eternal Flow-sensitive child, known as Lo , as the pirate had planned to sell him due to his abilities in the The Eternal Flow. After leaving the child in Kalesh and Vastari's care, Zephon departed for his next objective.
Invasion of Water World Ambassadors to the Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter I have a bad feeling about this.
I don't sense anything.
It's not about the mission, Master. It's something elsewhere… elusive.
―Theron Kalesh and Kyrel Vastari Link file info Kalesh during the invasion of Water World In 32 BBY by the time Vastari considered Kalesh to be ready for his trials , they were sent by The Stellar Dominion Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Finis Valorum to negotiate with the Commerce Dominion , who had set up a blockade around the planet of Water World Both Force Warden extensively studied political documents and trade relations between the parties prior to the endeavor, sensing its necessity.
The two Force Warden were tasked with negotiating a settlement with Commerce Dominion representatives.
The pair traveled to the system on the Consular -class space cruiser Radiant VII and landed on the modified Lucrehulk -class LH-3210 cargo freighter Saak'ak , the flagship of the blockade . There, Kalesh and Vastari were brought to a conference room, where protocol droid TC-14 informed them that a Commerce Dominion representative would be with them shortly, and invited the pair to make themselves comfortable. However, upon learning that the pair were Force Warden from TC-14, Viceroy Nute Gunray of the Commerce Dominion instead sent the protocol droid back into the room to distract them, with the droid offering Kalesh and Vastari drinks. Gunray then ordered his security to get rid of the Force Warden and their assets, with an overhead turret destroying the Radiant VII and its crew.
The two Force Warden sensed the loss of their vessel and rose from their seats, drawing their lightsabers before noticing poisonous dioxis gas being pumped into the room around them and holding their breaths.
OOM-series security droids were then sent to confirm that the Force Warden were dead, however Kalesh and Vastari escaped into the hallway and destroyed the battle droids before making their way to the Saak'ak s bridge. Kalesh held off the battle droids while Vastari attempted to cut through the doors to the bridge. However, droidekas summoned by Gunray arrived, and the two Force Warden were forced to flee into a nearby ventilation shaft, using The Eternal Flow speed to escape. The two escaped to Water World's surface by stowing away on separate C-9979 landing crafts in the Saak'ak's hangar bay, discovering a droid army preparing to invade Water World in the process.
Rescuing Queen Amidala After arriving on Water World, Kalesh was attacked by two Federation Single Trooper Aerial Platforms while en route to Vastari's location. He was rescued by his Master, who was accompanied by Jar Jar Binks , a member of Water World's native Bubbler species . After some debate, Binks agreed to lead the two Force Warden to Otoh Gunga , a hidden underwater Bubbler city where the group was brought before the Bubbler leader Boss Nass . Though unable to convince the Bubblers to help the humans of Water World, Vastari influenced Nass to obtain transport , to allow them to reach Water World's capital Aquatica's Crown Piloting the transport through the planet's core , the trio was attacked by an Opee sea killer at one point, which led to the ship being damaged and electronic systems shutting down. Kalesh quickly fixed the issue with some rewiring, and after a brief encounter with a Sando aqua monster , Kalesh, Vastari, and Binks reached Aquatica's Crown.
Upon their arrival, the group discovered that the Commerce Dominion had already taken control of Aquatica's Crown, finding empty streets. The two Force Warden came across a group of battle droids taking Queen Amidala and several others to an internment camp, and quickly engaged the droids, freeing the queen and her companions. Following this, the Force Warden moved to a nearby hangar, intending to use a Water World starship to take the queen to Xerion Prime. Kalesh moved to liberate several pilots who were held prisoner by battle droids, while his master took the rest of their group to a ship. After a brief skirmish, the group fled Water World in the queen's starship in an attempt to reach Xerion Prime with news of the Commerce Dominion invasion. During the escape, the ship's hyperdrive was damaged by droid starfighters , preventing them from jumping straight to Xerion Prime and forcing them to instead land on Xerion-7 for repairs.
Return of the Shadow Spawn Kalesh meets Zorvath Mordain.
After landing on the desert world, Kalesh remained on the ship, while Vastari, Binks, the droid Dronix Azure , and Amidala, who was disguised as a handmaiden , went to search for a new hyperdrive unit. While searching, Vastari discovered Zorvath Mordain , a young enslaved human from whom he retrieved a blood sample for analysis, believing the child to be strong in the The Eternal Flow. Vastari sent the data to Kalesh on the ship, with instructions for Kalesh to analyze it. Kalesh's analysis revealed that the boy's midi-chlorian count was higher than that of any Force Warden. When Vastari arrived, accompanied by Mordain-Fall, Void-Lord Maul , a Shadow Spawn apprentice, attacked Vastari prompting Kalesh to order the ship to take off, with Vastari leaping into the ship as it ascended. The group then proceeded to Xerion Prime.
Upon their arrival on the planet, Vastari and Kalesh went directly to the Circle of Light to report on the mysterious attacker, whom Vastari believed to be a Shadow Overlord . After being briefed on what to do about their mysterious attacker, Vastari discussed about Mordain-Fall with the Council, believing him to be the Chosen One . Nevertheless, the Council was determined that the boy not be trained. However, Vastari persevered, telling them that he would take the boy as his The Eternal Flow Apprentice, despite the Force Warden Code's restrictions, but Kalesh insisted he was ready to take the trials, and his master agreed. Instead of discussing the matter further, Jorik Vastus sent the pair back to Water World to protect the Queen and also as an attempt to lure out the mysterious assailant.
Theron Kalesh fighting Void-Lord Maul after his Master was impaled.
After returning to Water World, Binks located the Bubblers and Amidala, revealing herself to be the true Queen, begged Boss Nass to provide assistance in fighting the droid armies of the Commerce Dominion. Boss Nass agreed to fight the droids as a diversion, while the Queen's forces slipped into Aquatica's Crown and captured Gunray. However, they soon encountered Maul once again and engaged in a duel with him, biding time for Amidala and her forces to reach the throne room. During the duel with Maul, Kalesh was separated from his master and forced to watch as Maul impaled Vastari with his double-bladed lightsaber so, when the opportunity arose, Kalesh, filled with rage, retaliated against the Shadow Spawn. However, the Witch Worldian Horned Warrior gained the upper hand and knocked Kalesh into a nearby shaft, where he was barely able to grab onto a knob jutting out from the side before falling to his death. Maul used this opportunity to kick his lightsaber into the shaft. Despite his predicament, Kalesh was able to use his Vastari's lightsaber to cut the Shadow Spawn in half, whose body fell down the shaft, presumably dead. Kalesh then ran to his master's side and promised a dying Vastari that he would train Mordain-Fall.
Master of the Chosen One The first years Confer on you the level of The Eternal Flow Warrior, the Council does. But agree with your taking this boy as your The Eternal Flow Apprentice learner, I do not.
Qui-Gon believed in him.
The Chosen One, the boy may be. Nevertheless, grave danger, I fear, in his training.
―Zephon and Theron Kalesh Link file info Kalesh and Mordain-Fall at Vastari's funeral.
Following the end of the Battle of Water World, Kalesh was promoted to the rank of The Eternal Flow Warrior by the Council, with Zephon reluctantly accepting his decision to train Mordain-Fall. Kalesh was later present during Vastari's funeral , where he informed the boy that he would become a Force Warden.
Along with Amidala and her court, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall remained at the funeral long after the Circle of Light had left, waiting until every last ember had gone out.
Though he deeply grieved the loss of his teacher, Kalesh also felt that Vastari had abruptly cast him aside in favor of prophecies and unbending belief in Mordain-Fall as the Chosen One. Nonetheless, as he watched his mentor's body in its final moments, he promised that he would chose to believe the prophecies.
Later on, Kalesh, alongside his new The Eternal Flow Apprentice and several members of the Circle of Light, took part in a victory celebration in Aquatica's Crown.
During his first year as Mordain-Fall's Master, he sometimes woke up at night to see his The Eternal Flow Apprentice was sleeping on the floor next to his bed; he realized Mordain-Fall, having lost both his mother and Vastari, was clinging onto him, desperate to ensure his new master did not vanish one night.
During one of their many adventures, Kalesh fell into a nest of gundarks , prompting Mordain-Fall to rescue him.
At the Sanctum of Light, Kalesh trained Mordain-Fall in meditation and levitating rocks. Though Mordain-Fall wished to know more about his mentor's early life, he did not remember much of it by that point.
Kalesh had several misgivings toward taking on Mordain-Fall as his The Eternal Flow Apprentice, but stuck to his firm commitment of honoring his late master's dying wish. But Kalesh was still mourning Vastari, and he began to have the perspective that Mordain-Fall got a very raw deal being forced to be with a master who was hardly fit to be a teacher and had just barely got beyond the Force Warden trials himself.
Mission to Dallenor Thank you for coming master Force Warden. My name is Clatriffe. I'm in charge of the Dallenor excavation.
―Clatriffe Kalesh was given a mission to go to the planet Dallenor , where an archaeology team had discovered a Force Warden holocron . Kalesh decided to take Mordain-Fall with him as part of his training. Kalesh went to the Temple Archives to find information on Dallenor and about any Force Warden that went there, to no avail. He told Master Zephon that he would bring his apprentice with him, to which Zephon surprisingly agreed. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall took a T-6 shuttle to Dallenor.
Kalesh prepares to defend against the Krypder Riders.
Upon their arrival, Kalesh met mistress Clatriffe , who told of her troubles with the local pirates. Kalesh was told of Clatriffe's discovery of centuries-old droids and how she had to hire several of the locals for protection. Kalesh examined the Holocron, but did not open it due to the arrival of the Krypder Riders and their leader, Hudso Shaku . Kalesh attempted to convince them to leave, but Shaku and the riders demanded the artifacts and Kalesh's lightsaber . Kalesh fought the riders and subdued them. Kalesh then saw that Shaku had taken Mordain-Fall hostage and demanded his lightsaber. Before Theron-Kal could give a reply, Zorvath-Kel was able to knock Shaku out with rocks.
Other adventures with Mordain-Fall and a crisis of faith To leave the Order, does Zorvath-Kel wish?
Possibly, Master Zephon. He believes that his path lies elsewhere. He wishes to leave his training behind, at least for now. He says he will return, but… I don't know where I failed . I have done my best to teach him. He belongs here. He's not ready . He's too young As are you, Theron-Kal. As are you. Your fault it is not. A child Zorvath-Kel remains. His path before coming to us…difficult. His questions…natural.
―Zephon and The Eternal Flow Warrior Theron Kalesh debate about the future of Zorvath Mordain The Eternal Flow Warrior Theron Kalesh A couple of years later, Theron-Kal and Zorvath-Kel traveled to the planet Crystal World so that Mordain-Fall could build his first lightsaber after its construction, Kalesh said to him, "Zorvath-Kel, this weapon is your life." When Mordain-Fall was twelve years old, Kalesh was assigned a mission to study a star system that revolved, seemingly impossibly, around a dead dwarf star . Upon realizing Mordain-Fall had secretly snuck aboard his starship, Kalesh elected to turn the mission into a teaching experience, telling Mordain-Fall of the dead star as a metaphor for how Force Warden needed to learn to let go of their attachments.
Despite his initial misgivings about Mordain-Fall, having once believed him to be dangerous and would do more harm than good, Kalesh soon grew to view the boy as a his equal, finding a partner in their missions, and came to see him as his brother.
At some point, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall, during a mission in which they were they were joined by The Eternal Flow Adept Shaak Ti , were involved in complicated business on the terrestrial astronomical object of Naran-Shiv In 29 BBY Mordain-Fall sought to impress his peers at the Sanctum of Light. During a training session, he defeated a training droid , which he had programmed to mimic the appearance of the Shadow Spawn of Water World. All the while, Jorik Vastus, Kalesh and Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Sheev Palpatine watched—the latter of whom was impressed.
Sometime later, Mordain-Fall struggled to learn the skill of taming creatures when Kalesh told him that the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter wanted to see him. The two arrived at his office , where Palpatine requested that Mordain-Fall accompany him on an errand, declining Kalesh's company.
Upon Mordain-Fall's return to the Sanctum of Light, he confided in Kalesh that he wished to leave the Order, feeling uncomfortable at the prospect of his entire life being decided when he was only nine years old, and surrendered his lightsaber to his master. Though Kalesh took the weapon, he pleaded Mordain-Fall to reconsider.
Kalesh later confided to Zephon about Mordain-Fall's thoughts about leaving the Eternal Flow Wardens and that he himself thought he had failed Mordain-Fall despite doing the best he could to teach him, that Mordain-Fall belonged with the Eternal Flow Wardens and that he was too young not ready to be out on his own. Zephon confirmed that Kalesh himself was still young as well and that Mordain-Fall was still a child and that it was natural for him to have questions. Zephon then asked if Kalesh would be breaking his vow to Kyrel Vastari by allowing Mordain-Fall to leave, but Kalesh asserted that he would still train Mordain-Fall in the The Eternal Flow in case the dark side found him. Zephon reminded Kalesh that Force Warden training was exclusive to the Eternal Flow Wardens, to which Kalesh responded that if Mordain-Fall left, so would he.
Mission to Carnelion IV The road lies before you, Zorvath Mordain. Will you walk it alone?
No, Master. As a Force Warden. If you'll show me the way.
―Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain Theron-Kal traveled to Carnelion IV with his padawan Zorvath Mordain.
Before Mordain-Fall could give his definite answer, at Zephon's behest, both student and master responded to a mysterious distress signal from the supposedly-dead world of Carnelion IV that specifically called for Force Warden intercession. They began their journey to the coordinates, but their shuttle was damaged due to the planet's atmospheric debris field and the two had to eject from the doomed vessel, landing below the Celadon Sea . Not too long afterwards, they came to be aware of there being life on the planet as a sky battle raged over them, and Kalesh returned his lightsaber to him so that he could defend himself. As one of the combatant airships began to fall, Mordain-Fall and Kalesh saved its two-person crew by delaying the crash.
The survivors, Kolara and Mother Pran , were unaware of the distress signal and who the Force Warden were.
Kalesh was then able to use a mind trick on Pran to lower her weapons. However, they came under attack by the other airship. Kalesh then used his lightsaber to destroy the airship. Kalesh then stopped the pilot, Grecker from shooting at Mordain-Fall, Pran, and Kolara. After Mordain-Fall destroyed their blasters, Kalesh then pulled their knives away. Kalesh reasoned with Grecker, Kolara, and Pran that they needed to get to safety. As they made their way, they came across Corpse-leeches . Kalesh and Mordain-Fall then drew their lightsabers and tried to use the force to connect with them to no avail. Kalesh and the others then boarded an airship.
War on the planet Carnelion IV.
Kalesh then refused to give them the location of the distress signal. He also told Grecker that Mordain-Fall was not his son, but his The Eternal Flow Apprentice at the dying request of his master. Kalesh and Grecker then defended the airship against the corpse-leeches. However, Pran and Kolara took Mordain-Fall with them and abandoned the airship. Kalesh was then left behind on the airship as Pran destroyed it.
Kalesh and Grecker were then able to jump off the airship before it crashed. Kalesh was then able to use the force to make the creatures understand him. Kalesh then asked Grecker to tell him where Mordain-Fall was taken to. Grecker told him that he did not know where the open was. Kalesh then decided to go after him with Grecker after getting air masks on. Kalesh and Grecker then found the location of the distress signal. They then came under attack by a creature. Grecker then fired a flare. Kalesh and Grecker then fought until a masked man came out and let them in. Kalesh was able to get inside before Grecker closed the door. The man, Sera , then showed Kalesh his collection of his world's remnants. Kalesh was then told that Sera was the one who sent the distress signal. He then told Kalesh about his collection of relics and how both the open and closed wanted him dead.
Kalesh then learned about how Sera sent the signal and learned about both the Force Warden and Shadow Spawn. Kalesh and Sera then went to the roof to watch as Grecker's forces attacked his fortress. Despite Sera's pleas for Kalesh to kill them, Kalesh told her that the Force Warden spare everyone. Kalesh then spoke with Grecker and convinced him to stop their attack. However, Mother Pran attacked with her machines. Kalesh was then saved by Mordain-Fall. Kalesh then took Mordain-Fall to the Sera's communication unit. There, Mordain-Fall was able to send out a signal off-planet. Stellar Dominion and Force Warden forces arrived where they ended the conflict.
Mission to Water World Master Zephon has been kidnapped from the Sanctum of Light!
―Zorvath Mordain Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon was captured by battle droids and taken to the planet Water World . Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were sent to rescue him. Whilst on Water World, they located Zephon in an underwater base, where they learned that the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master had never really been captured. In reality, the operation was a test for Kalesh and Mordain-Fall, which they passed. The adventure marked the start of Kalesh and Mordain-Fall coming to view each other as brothers.
Kalesh and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice were also dispatched on a mission to Taris at one point.
Capturing a thief Not at all, Dex. What are friends for?
―Theron Kalesh to Dexter Jettster Theron-Kal tricks Tri Tellon While visiting Dex's Diner, the Pa'lowick thief Tri Tellon stole an object from Kalesh. She escaped through the world's lower levels, through CoCo Town and to her den, which she shared with the old rogue Magreda . Expecting to find Magreda, she instead found Kalesh who explained that the object she had stolen was just a tracking device wrapped in some paper. In came Dexter, who had asked Kalesh to trick Tellon as she had stolen a lot of goods from his customers. Dexter thanked him and told Kalesh he owed him one, which the Force Warden accepted.
Humbling the Chosen One A Force Warden's goal is to defend life, not take it.
Mercy doesn't defeat an enemy, Master. Which is why you're going to lose.
―Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain Kalesh conducts a sparring session with Mordain-Fall.
Sometime after Mordain-Fall reached adulthood, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall would engage in a lightsaber sparing session in the Sanctum of Light. After Mordain-Fall thought he was victorious, Kalesh told him that despite his victory, his need to win blinded him, and Kalesh was able to overpower Mordain-Fall and take Mordain-Fall's lightsaber away from him.
Separatist Crisis Protecting Senator Amidala You know I don't like it when you do that!
Sorry, Master, I forgot you don't like flying.
I don't mind flying, but what you're doing is suicide!
―Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain Kalesh and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice are reunited with Padme Amidala.
In 22 BBY Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were involved in a border dispute on Unity World that involved Presidente Shu Mai of the Commerce Guild . Following their success on Unity World the two Force Warden were sent by the Circle of Light—at the behest of Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine—to protect the now Senator Amidala from future attacks following an assassination attempt on her life. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall made their way to Padmé's Apartment and whilst they traveling up a turbolift, Kalesh sensed Mordain-Fall's anxiety and warned him of over-stepping their duties, only to be told later of Amidala's plan to use herself as bait.
That night, Zam Wesell attempted to kill the Senator with venomous kouhun deployed from a probe droid , but her plot was foiled when Kalesh and Mordain-Fall sensed a disturbance in the Senator's room. While Mordain-Fall eliminated the creatures, Kalesh leaped out of the window and held onto the droid as it attempted to flee into the skylanes of Xerion Prime. The probe droid moved rapidly between the express ways in an attempt to dislodge the Force Warden, unsuccessfully. As the droid moved closer to Wesell's position, the assassin shot the droid with her rifle, destroying it and causing Kalesh to fall rapidly towards the surface of the planet. Mordain-Fall was quickly approaching Kalesh's position in a speeder, and moved beneath him in order to catch him. The pair then proceeded to pursue the bounty hunter through the skyways of Xerion Prime through traffic lanes and industrial areas, until Mordain-Fall leaped to her speeder and disabled it, causing it to crash outside the Outlander Club The pair followed her in, realizing she was a changeling , able to mask her appearance. Kalesh made his way to the bar where he was offered death sticks by Elan Sel'Sabagno , an offer he declined. Kalesh encouraged Sel'sabagno to return home and rethink his life, using the force for persuasion. He sensed Wesell's presence and cut her arm off with his lightsaber before she could shoot him. Before she could tell the Force Warden who she was working for, Wesell was shot and killed by a toxic dart fired by Jango Fett Kalesh investigating the Water World saberdart at Dex's Diner Subsequently, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were sent on separate missions by the Council—while Kalesh continued an investigation on Amidala's aggressors, Mordain-Fall would protect her on Water World. Despite thinking his The Eternal Flow Apprentice was not prepared for his first solo mission, he abided by Council's request. Kalesh, then, took the toxic dart to his friend Dexter Jettster , who told him that it was a Water World saberdart . Using Dex's information about Water World , Kalesh visited the Archives, but he was unable to locate the system. When he asked Jocasta Nu about it, she surmised that the system must not exist since it was not in the archives. Unconvinced, Kalesh visited Master Zephon, who was teaching the Bear Clan , and the two agreed that someone had erased the files on Water World from the Archives, and that Kalesh needed to visit the location of the lost planet.
Discovery of the Syntheticthetic Being Army I have successfully made contact with the Prime Minister of Water World. They are using a bounty hunter named Jango Fett to create a clone army.
―Theron Kalesh, to Jorik Vastus and Zephon Upon arriving on Water World, Kalesh was greeted by the Water Worldan Taun We who told the Force Warden that they had been expecting him. She took Theron-Kal to Prime Minister Lama Su , who said Sifo-Dyas would have been proud of the army they had created in accordance with his request—to create a clone army for the Stellar Dominion. Kalesh was then shown the clones' prowess and growth, and was told that the original template was Jango Fett. After asking to meet Fett, Taun We took Kalesh to Fett's quarters, where the The Eternal Flow Warrior asked the bounty hunter questions concerning any recent visits to Xerion Prime.
Kalesh engaging Jango Fett on Water World.
After their meeting, Jango and his clone son, Boba Fett , attempted to flee Water World in the bounty hunter's ship, Slave I . Theron-Kal confronted Jango, and the two fought on the landing platform. At the end of the battle, Theron-Kal fell off the platform, and Jango believed he had fallen into the sea. However, Theron-Kal managed to catch hold of a bridge, and he returned to the platform to see Slave I taking off with just enough time for Theron-Kal to attach a homing beacon to Jango's hull.
Capture on Rock World You must join me, Theron-Kal… and together, we will destroy the Shadow Spawn!
I will never join you, Vorthak.
It may be difficult to secure your release.
―Vorthak Drel and Theron Kalesh Kalesh evades fire from Fett's Slave I in the asteroid belt around Rock World Kalesh pursued the Slave I in his starfighter all the way to Rock World and managed to survive Fett's attacks with seismic charges . Tricking him into believing he had died, Kalesh managed to land on the planet, where he discovered a multitude of Commerce Dominion ships. Furthermore, he infiltrated and overheard Vorthak Drel addressing the Separatist Council and mentioning the attempts on Senator Amidala's life were at the request of Nute Gunray. Realizing the importance of his discoveries, Kalesh sent a message to Mordain-Fall in Xerion-7 as his signal could not reach Xerion Prime on its own. Before he could end his message, however, Kalesh was attacked by a droideka and knocked unconscious, captured by the Separatists and imprisoned.
Inside the prison tower , Vorthak visited him; he revealed that the Stellar Dominion was under the influence of a Shadow Overlord named Void Collectiveus the Shadow, and tried to convince Kalesh to join him and destroy the Shadow Spawn together, but Kalesh refused.
Kalesh did not believe what Vorthak said about the Stellar Dominion being controlled by the Shadow Spawn, just as Vorthak had hoped.
The The Phantasm Wars You fought in the The Phantasm Wars?
Yes. I was once a Force Warden knight, the same as your father.
―Kaelan Draxius and Theron Kalesh First Battle of Rock World No, sir, I wasn't involved in the first assault on Rock World.
You didn't miss much. Last time, I was chained to a pole and attacked by several humongous monsters.
That sounds entertaining.
It was, for the Geonosians.
―Squad Leader Cody and Theron Kalesh Kalesh fought in the Petranaki Arena alongside other Force Warden on Rock World.
Sentenced to execution in Rock World' Petranaki Arena , Kalesh was joined in the arena by Mordain-Fall and Amidala who were also captured in their attempt to rescue him. Though reassured that his message had been re-transmitted, he expressed disappointment that Mordain-Fall had come and failed to free them from the situation. The trio worked to control the three creatures deployed to kill them—a reek , an acklay , and a nexu . After they had freed themselves from their restraints, Kalesh fought the most formidable of the three creatures—the acklay. Kalesh, Amidala, and Mordain-Fall were saved by the arrival of a Force Warden task force led by Jorik Vastus who refused to surrender to Vorthak, intending to complete their rescue. The Force Warden fought back against the overwhelming droid armies, but soon only a few survivors were left in the center of the arena surrounded by battle droids. When Jorik declined Vorthak's offer to let the Force Warden surrender, Kalesh stood in solidarity with the decision, intending to go down fighting.
Moments prior to their execution, clone army forces arrived in transports led by Master Zephon. The clones fought back against the droids and rescued the Force Warden and Amidala, forming a perimeter around the survivors. Kalesh then boarded the same Stellar Dominion LAAT/i transport with Mordain-Fall and Amidala while the rest of the Force Warden task force also escaped. As they flew, Mordain-Fall instructed their clone pilots on how best to shoot down enemy forces, which Kalesh complimented. Soon, both caught sight of Vorthak fleeing on his speeder with a droid escort. Kalesh felt that there was not enough time to pursue reinforcements, assuring Amidala that he and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice could handle the situation alone. When Vorthak's escort rattled their LAAT/i, the Senator fell out of their vehicle, causing Mordain-Fall to panic.
Kalesh fought Vorthak on Rock World.
Mordain-Fall pleaded to rescue her, though Kalesh insisted that catching up to Vorthak was the highest priority and that if the The Eternal Flow Apprentice stayed behind he would be removed from the Eternal Flow Wardens. Once they landed, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall pursued Vorthak as he prepared to flee the planet. After confronting him about the Force Warden he had killed earlier that day, the pair engaged in a lightsaber duel with Vorthak. The former Force Warden's use of The Eternal Flow lightning revealed his fall to the dark side, prompting Kalesh to be wary when his apprentice was downed by it.
Now knowing that he had underestimated Vorthak's skills, dueled Vorthak, but was eventually disarmed by the former Force Warden during the duel and injured on the shoulder and thigh. Kalesh tossed his lightsaber to Mordain-Fall so that he could continue the fight.
However, after the The Eternal Flow Apprentice's arm was cut off by Vorthak's lightsaber, he too was tossed to the floor beside his Master. Vorthak moved toward them both, but Zephon arrived shortly after to fight his former apprentice in a lightsaber duel. However, he was forced to focus on saving Mordain-Fall and Kalesh from being crushed to their deaths by falling debris moved loose by Vorthak. As a result, the Separatist leader escaped in his ship, leaving the three Force Warden behind. Amidala arrived with a group of clone troopers shortly afterward, embracing Mordain-Fall as Kalesh stood nearby.
Promotion to Force Warden Army Commander I must admit without the clones, it would not have been a victory.
Victory? Victory, you say? Master Theron-Kal, not victory. The shroud of the dark side has fallen. Begun, the Syntheticthetic Being War has.
―Theron Kalesh and Zephon about the Rock World battle Theron Kalesh constructed his third lightsaber after Rock World.
Following the Rock World battle , Kalesh traveled back to Xerion Prime while his The Eternal Flow Apprentice escorted Amidala to Water World.
Mordain-Fall's absence was noticed by Vice Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Mas Amedda , who informed Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine of his whereabouts after seeing he did not return with Kalesh.
In the Temple on Xerion Prime, Kalesh met with Jorik Vastus and Zephon in the Circle of Light room to discuss the confrontation that had just taken place. He told the Councillors that his apprentice was escorting Amidala back to Water World before returning to the Temple, which they accepted. Although Kalesh noted that the Rock World battle would not have been a victory without the clones, Zephon did not think of it as victory, as it marked the beginning of the The Phantasm Wars . Though Kalesh passed on Vorthak's warning about a Shadow Spawn controlling the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to his peers—both mostly dismissed it due to the former Force Warden's actions and fall to the dark side. However, the trio resolved to continue monitoring the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly instead.
While Mordain-Fall was on Water World to escort Amidala home, he wondered how his Master was doing in the aftermath of the battle. Additionally, the The Eternal Flow Apprentice reflected on what their responsibilities in the upcoming war would be like while having to collaborate with clone troopers in battle. However, he firmly chose to keep knowledge of his relationship with the Senator secret from Kalesh despite the strain of the deception. Mordain-Fall married Amidala, despite knowing his Master would disapprove. As days passed, Mordain-Fall eventually chose to return to Xerion Prime, citing that he had not informed his Master of a reason to remain on Water World. After meeting with their superiors, both Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were sent on their first deployment.
Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader Cody (Cody's helmet pictured) was Kalesh's second-in-command.
Now greatly respected both in and outside of the Eternal Flow Wardens, Kalesh was promoted to Force Warden Army Commander like many of his colleagues and was later bestowed the rank of High Force Warden Army Commander while he led the Third Systems Army and commanded the Open Circle Fleet in the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion during the The Phantasm Wars. While deployed, he held command of the 7th Sky Corps and often led its 212th Attack Battalion into combat personally until the war's end. The Syntheticthetic Being Marshal Squad Leader Cody served as his second-in-command, accompanying him on many missions against the Separatist Mechanical Phalanx and other Separatist targets. Kalesh's military engagements, often alongside Mordain-Fall, led to many famed victories that he was praised for by the Stellar Dominion.
For his diplomatic skills, he came to be known as "the Negotiator"— a title mirrored by the name of his flagship, the Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel Negotiator Early in the The Phantasm Wars, Kalesh met the Supreme Martial Squad Leader of the Separatist Droid Armies Army Commander Grievous . The two developed a rivalry and fought each other numerous times during the war, with Grievous considering Kalesh to be a Force Warden he needed to kill "face to face." Their skills were equal, and they quickly became mortal enemies.
Grievous harbored a deep animosity for Kalesh.
At some point during his travels, Kalesh visited the planet Gazian , which was strong in the The Eternal Flow. The planet, which had a The Eternal Flow vergence , captured an imprint of those who traveled there, including Kalesh.
As his last lightsaber was destroyed, Kalesh built a new lightsaber , which he would break in through his service in the conflict and use throughout the remainder of his life.
Initial engagements Rocky planet deployment Shortly after the battle on Rock World, Kalesh was sent to a rocky planet alongside his The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Squad Leader Cody, and several troopers, including a clone soldier named Sister , to destroy Separatist forces. Kalesh was dismayed by how much Mordain-Fall seemed to enjoy combat, and asked how his apprentice found enjoyment in their combat. After receiving a reply, Kalesh worked with his student to complete their objectives and resolved to find better cover for their future engagements. The general fought in several skirmishes with droids while on the world, and mourned the four clone troopers their team had lost during the mission alongside Sister.
Feeling that the Force Warden needed more generals, he resolved to suggest to the Circle of Light that Mordain-Fall take the Force Warden trials after watching him in combat. He mused that it was a move that would allow them to work together, but also afford the younger man the freedoms of a higher rank along with his own command. Not long after on Xerion Prime, the handmaiden Sabé initially worried that Kalesh would notice her posing in Amidala's place while at a meeting in the Sanctum of Light. When Mordain-Fall left the gathering, Sabé noticed Kalesh attempt to convince his former apprentice to talk to the Paradise Worldian Senator Bail Organa . Mordain-Fall's time as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice ended, as he was risen to the rank of The Eternal Flow Warrior for the war not long after.
As a result, Kalesh was promoted to The Eternal Flow Adept after his apprentice's knighting.
Rising through the ranks After Mordain-Fall had already been promoted, Kalesh attended his former apprentice's official Knighting Ceremony , which was being officiated by Master Jorik. Kalesh had just recently become the next of many Force Warden to rotate into the council seat of the late Coleman Trebor, and it was unknown if this arrangement would be permanent. Kalesh treated the tasks presented to him in this role with a certain amount of seriousness, and even treated the ceremony as if it was a war decision. As Jorik gave his speech, Kalesh stared at Mordain-Fall, who could feel the weight of the stare. When Jorik brought up the possibility of the recently-knighted Force Warden receiving The Eternal Flow Apprentices of their own, Kalesh caught Mordain-Fall's eye, smirking as the thought of an apprentice irked Mordain-Fall.
Following the conclusion of Jorik's speech, Kalesh, confused, glanced around the other The Eternal Flow Adepts present. Despite his usual skill with improvisation and negotiations, Kalesh found himself flustered by scheduling problems. Mordain-Fall was amused by Kalesh's confusion, as his former master ran his fingers through his now-longer hair. Upon noting that the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, various senators, and multiple clone commanders were still not present, Kalesh commented that their guests were late, albeit certain that they would arrive shortly. However, the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's attendance was not in person, but instead via a holo-transmission. Addressing Zephon and Jorik, Palpatine announced that the Purse World Rich World had been bombed . As Zephon instructed the The Eternal Flow Apprentices and younglings to leave, Kalesh grabbed Mordain-Fall's shoulder, ensuring him that they were equals, and he was welcome to stay. Mordain-Fall then asked if he still had to call Kalesh "Master," and Kalesh jokingly replied that it would only be the case if he knew his place.
As the group was informed that the Cadesura district of Rich World's capital city Zarra , had collapsed, Kalesh stood side by side with Mordain-Fall. His thoughts lingered on his former apprentice for several seconds , pondering how his emotional transition into a The Eternal Flow Warrior had been rougher than expected. He believed that, while Mordain-Fall had made progress in coming to decisions confidently, he often reverted into deference, unsure of what his place was. It reminded Kalesh of his own ascension to the rank of The Eternal Flow Warrior, thinking about how long it had taken for him to feel as though he had earned his title, in contrast to his peers who had taken their promotions in stride. Remembering Vastari's advice to not linger on his anxieties, Kalesh exhaled, focusing his mind on the moment.
The Rich World affair …you owe me one, and not for saving your skin for the 10th time.
Ninth time. That business on Rich World doesn't—doesn't count.
―Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were sent to Rich World to investigate an explosion following Mordain-Fall's promotion to The Eternal Flow Warrior.
Kalesh was then sent to look into the explosion , which was being blamed on the Stellar Dominion by the Purse World Rich World, the headquarters of the Commerce Dominion.
As Kalesh investigated with the help of a Rich Worldn guard named Ruug Quarnom , the newly-knighted Mordain-Fall disobeyed orders and joined him.
During their mission, events transpired that led to a situation where the two Force Warden were in peril. Mordain-Fall believed that he had saved his former mentor from the danger, while Kalesh believed the action did not count towards the ever-growing total of times his former apprentice had saved his life.
For his actions on Rich World, it was decided Kalesh's council seat would be permanent. Mordain-Fall and Kalesh also returned to Rich World shortly thereafter to rescue Quarnom. With the passage of the Force Warden Military Integration Act , Kalesh was provided with body armor to wear over his robes, but he did not immediately adopt that gear, much like Mordain-Fall.
Accepting they were no longer master and apprentice, the two left the Rich World mission as brothers-in-arms.
Krystar rescue You clones will never be fodder, not on my watch. The Force Warden, clones, senators, our allies—all of us. We're in this together . And I will fight for each and every one of us in equal measure, now and until the very last day of this was.
―Theron Kalesh to his troopers Theron Kalesh and Lysara Vex'onia heading to Krystar At some point that year, Kalesh and his battalion were sent to the planet Krystar to rescue several clones being held captive. Though hesitant to pursue an assault on the planet, which was aligned with the Stellar Dominion, he agreed with Cody that saving the hostages was important. After meeting with Amidala, he was made aware of intelligence gathered from Senator Vishar Koss of Krystar. Using this, Kalesh helped form a plan for the operation to infiltrate a compound rumored to be built near the Krystar palace with Amidala's assistance. Escorted to the planet's surface by Amidala under the guise of an aid mission, Kalesh and his troopers investigated the claims of the captured clones.
Though his soldiers wished to take action immediately to free their brothers, the Force Warden insisted on having adequate proof before responding accordingly due to the planet's Stellar Dominion affiliation. Kalesh's men proved able to confirm the claims made by Koss when they found trapped troopers in the compound and contacted their commanding officer about it. Kalesh then received a transmission from Amidala, who informed him that Krystar's Regent Queb was selling the captured clones to Scale Hunters. Kalesh instructed his men to free their brothers, which they did successfully before returning to their ship. Though a Scale Hunter hunter was upset at the recapture of the clones, Kalesh faced his fury by throwing him out of range with the The Eternal Flow. The general then allowed Koss and Amidala to travel off the planet with them, with the former seeking protection until Queb was taken care of. After the event, Kalesh vowed to protect his allies until the end of the war as much as possible—despite the political challenges—and promised that Queb would be arrested.
Caliban bridge building As clearly stated in the Galactic Accords regarding prisoners of war, no prisoner shall be forced into manual labor or— Force Warden scum! You belong to me, Kalesh, and you will do as I say…or you will die.
―Theron Kalesh and Grievous on Caliban Theron Kalesh and Grievous on Caliban Kalesh and his troopers were present on the Fringe Territories moon Caliban and were captured by Army Commander Grievous. Though the Force Warden attempted to argue that prisoners of war cannot be forced into labor due to a provision in the Galactic Accords war statutes, Grievous insisted that they build a lunar ice bridge for him. Grievous claimed he would kill them if they did not complete the task, and that they would be lucky to leave alive. Despite the frigid temperatures, Kalesh made a plan to construct a sabotaged project to replace the bridge the Separatist leader had originally destroyed and instructed the clone troopers with him to assist.
Near the build site, the Force Warden and his men climbed a rise and met a qubey native of the world trapped on one side of a ravine, attempting to reach its parent on the opposite end. After Kalesh saw this, he decided to rebuild the bridge out of compassion and relayed this order to his troopers. Further observation of the creatures showed indication of their displeasure with the Separatist presence on their world, leading to Kalesh counting them as allies. As the structure was being made, the qubey distracted Grievous enough for Kalesh to retrieve his lightsaber when the enemy leader came to inspect it's construction in a surprise ambush. After the bridge's completion, Kalesh implored the general to let his men leave the planet. When Grievous declined, the qubey attacked him and his droids while the Force Warden also engaged the Separatist in lightsaber combat. Kalesh goaded the general into stepping onto the sabotaged new bridge, then used the The Eternal Flow to start an avalanche. Grievous fell into the ravine after being swept away, allowing Kalesh to escape the planet with his men in a ship and destroy the bridge after takeoff.
Hisseen siege Sorry we were late, Cody. We were still in pursuit of Ventress and Vorthak when we received Rex's distress call.
Not to worry, Army Commander. Everything went as easily as always.
―Theron Kalesh and Cody Theron-Kal and Cody during the Hisseen siege Kalesh traveled to the planet Hisseen and participated in a siege of the planet alongside Mordain-Fall, The Eternal Flow Adept Plo Koon , and their battalions. After working swiftly to destroy an encampment of battle droids, Koon instructed the trio that their objective was to prevent the Hisseenian premier from revealing the location of his fellow parliament members to Vorthak and his apprentice, Asajj Ventress —who would kill or threaten them. The Force Warden leave and headed into mountainous terrain while leaving their troopers to handle the Separatist ground assault.
The Force Warden searched to discover the location of the parliament, initially coming up with nothing. However, they soon met Vorthak and Ventress, engaging in a lightsaber fight with the pair that prevented them from seeking out the parliament. Koon attempted to contact their clone commanders of the deteriorating situation while Kalesh and Mordain-Fall fought the Separatist darksiders, though the message broke up due to the mountainous terrain surrounding them.
Koon relayed the coordinates of the Hisseenian government members to Wolffe, trusting him and the other commanders to rescue them while he helped Mordain-Fall and Kalesh. As Vorthak continued keeping the trio occupied, their soldiers freed the parliament members by destroying the droids guarding them, reminded of the situational similarity of the Krystar mission that Kalesh had embarked on.
The siege on Hisseen continued with more waves of droids attacking, reminding Cody of the mission to Caliban. As the clone troopers prepare to fight, Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Koon return, slicing the Separatist reinforcements into pieces. Though Ventress and Vorthak escaped, Kalesh congratulated the soldiers on their success rescuing the parliament. He then relayed that Zephon had called them back to Xerion Prime for their next deployment.
Deployment to Kudo III …you're not wrong. The people in the foundry aren't soldiers. But if he's right about the risk to our clone soldiers… There has to be a better way to approach this. Isn't that thr whole reason the Force Warden are a part of this war? To help save lives?
―Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain Kalesh and Mordain-Fall went on a mission to Kudo III.
Kalesh traveled to the Corvair sector with Mordain-Fall during the Battle of Corvair , watching the skirmish take place from a Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel. Following the battle, the pair received instructions to investigate rumors of a droid foundry being established on a moon in the sector, Kudo III . Kalesh encouraged his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice to trust in the The Eternal Flow in the investigation, and while acknowledging the skepticism of Yularen, supported Mordain-Fall's intuition on the matter.
As they shared a meal together, Kalesh shared Mordain-Fall's concerns about civilians being involved in the Kudo III developments. He encouraged him to protect any innocents, while still dealing with discovered Separatist threats. Ultimately, Mordain-Fall found that the Separatists had been attempting to goad the Stellar Dominion into attacking the facility with falsely fed information to kill the innocent slaves inside, then using the assault as negative war propaganda against the Force Warden. Kalesh praised Mordain-Fall for his approach of the situation and discovery of the plot. Afterward, Kalesh and Yularen discussed the implications of attacking a neutral party, and whether the planet Kudo would consider joining as a result of the discovery on their moon.
Arrival on Christophsis Well, here I am. Tell me about this new weapon.
You're looking at it.
"'I'm looking at what?
"'Two steps forward, and you'd actually be kissing it.
―Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh, about the stealth ship Kalesh revealing the stealth ship to Mordain-Fall Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were sent on a mission to bring relief supplies to Senator Organa and the Stellar Dominion forces that were trapped on the planet Christophsis because of a thirty-ship strong Separatist blockade led by Fleet Commander Trench . Kalesh, who arrived later than his former apprentice, brought with him a stealth ship prototype provided by the Stellar Dominion. He ordered Mordain-Fall to retreat from his current position and meet him aboard his cruiser, where he presented the stealth ship and its capabilities to his companion. Kalesh then gave orders to Mordain-Fall to sneak past the blockade and deliver the supplies to Organa's encampment in secret, which his former apprentice felt was similar to an errand. Though Mordain-Fall wished for more of the prototypes, Kalesh informed him that only one was available—which was not to be used to attack Trench's ship alone.
Emboldened by his own skills, Mordain-Fall tested the capabilities of the ship further and found that Trench's initial missiles were unable to detect it. Kalesh attempted to order his former apprentice to cease and head to Christophsis' surface with increasing urgency after making contact with Organa's bombarded command center and hearing the senator's pleas, but was ignored. Closing communications with his former Master, Mordain-Fall proceeded to attack the flagship of the Separatist Fleet Commander Trench with his stealth ship and broke the blockade with the attack. Afterward, Kalesh issued Mordain-Fall his congratulations after the supplies were safely delivered to Organa on the world's surface.
Following the skirmish in space, the two Force Warden Army Commanders and their clone troopers were sent to the planet's surface to fight off the droid army taking control of the world.
Traitorous clone …I believe the number of eyes watching us has been steadily growing.
Great. Perhaps this means our adversary has learned about our mission. Of course, nobody's tried to stop us yet.
―Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were ambushed by droids.
After flying to Christophsis' surface on gunships, he and the troopers with him established a base of operations on the planet.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall then planned and prepared to lead a surprise assault on Separatist forces in the world's crystalline capital city Chaleydonia with their men. However, they were forced to abort their mission due to a large droid ambush. Mordain-Fall led his troopers to Kalesh's trapped position and both escaped with their soldiers into a ship from the roof of a double-towered building . One of the troopers with them took the severed head of a T-series tactical droid After analysis, Cody and Mordain-Fall's clone officer, Syntheticthetic Being Ship Commander Rex , reported to the Force Warden that the enemy had known exactly where their ambush was going to be. Kalesh ordered both to root out the spy within the Stellar Dominion's forces, insisting on the secrecy of the operations at hand while he left base with Mordain-Fall to further investigate. When the Force Warden took BARC speeders behind enemy lines, Separatist forces jammed their transmissions, which left Rex and Cody unable to contact them. Acting under their generals' orders, both clone officers discovered that the clone trooper Slick was the traitor and arrested him, but not before the traitor destroyed the majority of the Stellar Dominion base's weapons depot. As Kalesh and Mordain-Fall continued heading towards the Separatist headquarters , both surmised whatever was waiting for them there was a trap due to the number of droids observing them from a distance.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall confronting Slick Upon entering the headquarters, both Force Warden met minimal resistance on the lower level. After meeting Ventress in the building, however, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall engaged in a lightsaber duel with her. Kalesh exchanged banter with Ventress as they engaged, but eventually was forced to escape with his colleague on stolen droid STAPs after an ambush. When the two Force Warden returned to the command center, Rex and Cody presented an apprehended Slick. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall expressed disappointment in Slick and the destruction of the weapons depot.
Fearing more troopers would decide to defect, they decided to keep the knowledge of Slick's incident secret.
Eternal Flow Adept informed Rex and Cody that they should prepare for a large number of incoming battle droids, with minimal heavy cannons to defend their position with.
As Stellar Dominion forces prepared to engage the droids, the blockade above Christophsis began reforming.
Chaleydonia defense That shield is certainly putting a crimp in my day.
―Theron Kalesh during the Battle of Christophsis Link file info Kalesh fighting droids on Christophsis Kalesh and Mordain-Fall maintained control over the planet for a short period of time, reporting its capture to the Circle of Light. Eternal Flow Adept then sent a ship back to the Stellar Dominion fleet above Christophsis for a supplies restock, regretting the decision shortly after. Not long after, Palpatine requested that Force Warden be sent to return Rotta —the son of the Blob Sovereign crime lord Jabba —to his father in exchange for the usage of Fringe Territories trade routes. As a result, Jorik and Zephon sent orders through Fleet Commander Wullf Yularen to ensure that the new The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala landed on Christophsis to inform Kalesh and Mordain-Fall of their next rescue mission assignment—assuming that the Force Warden pair was done with their current engagement. However, on Christophsis, the Force Warden pair continued to fight against more waves of enemy Separatist droids. While deflecting blast fire alongside Cody, Kalesh surmised that reinforcements would be needed soon.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall waiting to greet a supply ship Kalesh defended the Stellar Dominion's defensive positions alongside his men, helping Mordain-Fall with a plan to wipe out droids in a large avenue while heavy cannons gave them cover fire. The Separatist Army Commander Whorm Loathsom decided to order his forces into a tactical retreat, surprising the Force Warden. Seeing a Stellar Dominion ship fly overhead, both assumed reinforcements or assistance had arrived. However, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall then met Nala, who had arrived in the ship alone. Kalesh and his former apprentice used the ship to contact Zephon, who told them to return to Xerion Prime for a new mission . When Zephon learned of the impending Separatist threat preventing their departure from Christophsis he promised to send reinforcements, but cut off mid-transmission. Though the Kalesh assumed Nala would be his new apprentice, she corrected him, relaying that Mordain-Fall was to be her teacher.
Kalesh captured Loathsom after his shield was destroyed While they awaited assistance, Loathsom used a deflector shield to protect his droids from attack while steadily advancing on the Stellar Dominion's heavy cannons. Kalesh used a holographic display to brief others about the location of the shield generator, after which Mordain-Fall and Nala brainstormed a plan to take it out while the The Eternal Flow Adept and Rex stayed behind as a diversion. As the shield boundary increased, Kalesh ordered his men to fall back to a position further into the city. Meanwhile, he went under the shield with some of his troopers and began attacking enemy forces. Seeing that their efforts were in vain, Kalesh instructed Rex to have his men guard the heavy cannons while he delayed the droids. Eternal Flow Adept proceeded to offer himself up in defeat to Loathsom, claiming that there were terms of surrender to discuss.
After Kalesh spent an extended period of time stalling by delaying to set terms of surrender or offer a flag of truce during which he was held at blasterpoint, Mordain-Fall and Nala destroyed the shield using explosive charges. His refusal to stand down his forces angered and distracted Loathsom who had Kalesh seized and threatened to destroy him. On the destruction of the shield, Kalesh freed himself and was able to quickly restrain the Separatist general as Stellar Dominion reinforcements arrived on the planet. Upon landing in a gunship before Kalesh, Zephon greeted the The Eternal Flow Adept to begin telling him of Rotta's capture.
While he managed to give Nala and Mordain-Fall enough time to win the day for the Stellar Dominion, his capture and subsequent stalling was a boon to Separatist propaganda for they were able to paint Kalesh's ruse as a false surrender and proof of Stellar Dominion treachery. Ultimately, it ensured very few peace talks were held over the course of the war, with Kalesh indeed coming to show regret for the conflict's ongoing bloodshed.
Mountain World and Xerion-7 We know of Vorthak's plot to turn the Blob Sovereigns against us. It will not succeed.
It will when the truth dies with you.
―Theron Kalesh and Asajj Ventress Kalesh negotiating with Jabba the Blob Sovereign.
After greeting Zephon on Christophsis, Kalesh gave parting advice to Mordain-Fall about training Nala before heading to Xerion-7 to negotiate with Jabba. Eternal Flow Adept promised that Stellar Dominion forces would successfully rescue his son, and listened to the Blob Sovereign's additional terms about capturing the kidnapper of his son, dead or alive. Kalesh then informed Mordain-Fall that he had one planetary rotation to return Rotta —and also privately reflected that his meeting with Jabba had made him believe the Blob Sovereign had never bathed in his life due to the smell.
Eternal Flow Adept ordered his troops to depart for Mountain World next in an effort to reinforce his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice's forces. After Mordain-Fall and Nala rescued Rotta from Mountain World's B'omarr Order Religious Place , Kalesh arrived and fought with a fleet of fighters in Mountain World's atmosphere, but was unable to contact the other Force Warden due to jammed transmissions.
Kalesh dueling Ventress From the skies, he noticed a battle occurring on the rooftop of a building and followed his men down to the surface to find Mordain-Fall. Kalesh found Ventress inside the monastery and fought in a brief lightsaber duel with her while exchanging banter. Mordain-Fall and Nala escaped the planet with Rotta during their fight, and he eventually forced Ventress to flee after disabling one side of her lightsabers . Once the fight concluded, Kalesh contacted his former apprentice and informed him that he would come to Xerion-7 to help as soon as Mountain World's situation settled. After Mordain-Fall and Nala successfully returned Rotta to Jabba and cleared their name from the framing schemes of the Blob Sovereign Ziro and Vorthak, Kalesh and Zephon met the Force Warden pair on Xerion-7 to negotiate a treaty with the crime lord.
A suspected defection Our spies have spotted Separatist agents at the port where the Halcyon arrives tomorrow... That's where he'll try to make a rendezvous. And Theron-Kal already has it staked out with a unit of clone troopers, so— ―Zorvath-Kel regarding Theron-Kal's role in the Circle of Light's plan to catch the defected senator Zast Tri'vak At some point following the negotiation of the Blob Sovereign Clan and Stellar Dominion's treaty, the Circle of Light caught wind of Peaceful World Senator Zast Tri'vak 's plans to defect to the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Due to the risk Tri'vak's defection would present to important Stellar Dominion supply routes, the Council took action. Mordain-Fall and Senator Amidala were sent on board the Blob Sovereign-owned MPO-1400 Purgill-class star cruiser known as the Halcyon to catch the rogue senator, while Kalesh staked out the planned arrival port of the Halcyon with a unit of clone troopers. As things went awry on board the star cruiser when Asajj Ventress arrived to extract Tri'vak, the Dark Acolyte taunted Mordain-Fall, claiming he was not much of a challenge without Kalesh by his side. Ultimately, the risk of Tri'vak's defection was negated with his death, as Ventress killed him to prevent him from spilling Separatist secrets to the Blob Sovereign Clan.
Ryloth's blockade Senator, the fleet protecting Ryloth has been destroyed, and the supply lines have been cut. The troops are out of fuel, food, ammunition. And the civilian population is starving.
―Theron Kalesh, to Senator Bail Organa Theron Kalesh in a Circle of Light meeting with Senator Bail Organa At some point, Kalesh met with members of the Circle of Light in a hologram call to meet with Fleet Commander Dao from his post in the orbit of the planet Ryloth, who was calling for aid at Force Warden Army Commander Ima-Gun Di 's request. Dao informed the Councillors that his fleet was unable to continue aiding Stellar Dominion forces on the world's surface due to the Separatist blockade around the planet, and his plea for help cut off mid-sentence when his flagship was destroyed. Following this, the Kalesh and his colleagues sent a CR90 corvette blockade runner loaded with relief supplies to planet Winged World accompanied by Representative Jar Jar Binks of Water World.
Kalesh and his colleagues then proceeded to contact Senator Bail Organa and request his assistance in negotiating with King Katuunko of the planet Winged World. Doing this, Kalesh explained, would allow Stellar Dominion relief supplies to flow through the world as a staging ground . Moved by Kalesh's words, Organa agreed to travel to the negotiations to help the starving citizens of Ryloth. Eventually, the Senator was successful in delivering some of the supplies and gaining the favor of the Winged Merchant king.
Missions across the galaxy A secret superweapon Tell me, has there been any word from Master Plo Koon or his fleet?
…actually, I just received word that Zorvath-Kel has found the remains of Master Plo's fleet and is searching the debris for survivors.
―Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine and Theron Kalesh Theron Kalesh in a conference about Plo Koon's fleet destruction.
When Master Plo Koon's fleet was destroyed in the campaign of the Malevolence —a secret Separatist superweapon—during the Battle of Abregado , and Mordain-Fall reported the Gas Phantom 's interrupted message and loss of contact from the Abregado system . Kalesh watched his report alongside with Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, Jorik, and Zephon, remarking that the Separatist operations were unusually tidy to maintain the secrecy of their weapon. In the meeting, Mordain-Fall was ordered to reinforce Kalesh's fleet to protect supply convoys and not send a rescue for the attack's possible survivors from the Abregado system. Though Nala disagreed, she was overruled, with Kalesh fondly remarking that her outspoken behavior was likely learned from her Master.
Kalesh's forces were joined by Fleet Commander Yularen, who was commanding Mordain-Fall's fleet. Upon questioning where his former apprentice was, Yularen explained the other general's self-redeployment to search for survivors in the Abregado system against orders. Kalesh then confronted Mordain-Fall about his deviation from orders in a holographic call, prompting the wayward Force Warden to meet with the Stellar Dominion fleet as soon as possible. Though Nala claimed that the idea was hers, the The Eternal Flow Adept doubted her claim, ordering them back to defensive escort duty upon learning no survivors had been found. In a meeting with Palpatine, Jorik, and Zephon, Kalesh relayed Mordain-Fall's detour and his hope to find Koon and his troopers still alive. Though the decision was deemed reckless by Zephon, Kalesh assured the group that his former apprentice's fleet was where it needed to be in defensive formation, as he had gone with only a small ship and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice. Shortly after, Mordain-Fall and Nala managed to rescue Koon and some of his men from the debris of their destroyed ships, escaping Separatist pursuit. As the first survivors of the superweapon, they were able to report to the Circle of Light what the Malevolence s capabilities were, including its ion cannons Kalesh and Yularen reporting to Nala Se Upon learning of the Malevolence s next target—the Kaliida Shoals Medical Center in the Fringe Territories—Kalesh and Mordain-Fall formulated a daring plan to engage and destroy the Malevolence s ion cannons with his Shadow Squadron clone pilots. While Mordain-Fall traveled through the nearby Kaliida Nebula with his squadron, Kalesh led the Stellar Dominion fleet of ships through hyperspace to the medical station. As his former apprentice engaged the enemy vessel, Kalesh entered the system and began destroying the massive warship using the combined firepower of his fleet as the enemy vessel fled. Along with Wullf Yularen, Kalesh helped organize the evacuation of the medical center with Yularen, dispatching medical frigates. While Mordain-Fall's task force proved successful in destroying its cannons, the Malevolence s defenses withstood the fire of Kalesh's fleet for some time.
After thanking Mordain-Fall for his assistance, Kalesh ordered the ships under his command to continue pursuit of the Malevolence as it fled to Separatist space with a damaged hyperdrive.
Malevolence encounter That's your plan— Just fly there, land, hope they don't spot us, and walk in the door?
Basically.
Oh, brilliant. Let's get going.
―Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain Link file info Kalesh during the Malevolence pursuit During the pursuit, Kalesh discussed contacting additional reinforcements with Koon, but resolved to continue with the ships he had due to a lack of available forces in the area. The Master concluded that this could be the Stellar Dominion's opportunity to destroy Grievous by firing on the enemy ship's bridge, having surmised that the Malevolence s hyperdrive was damaged due to the vessel not fleeing. Shortly after, in a trap arranged by Vorthak and executed by Palpatine, Amidala arrived at the battle's scene having been fed false information regarding a diplomatic mission in the system. Using her as a hostage, Grievous forced the Stellar Dominion's fleet to stall their attack, further encouraged by Mordain-Fall's insistence on mounting a rescue.
Kalesh joined Mordain-Fall in a small ship, intending to sneak on the Separatist warship by slipping past the ship's damaged sensors and docking at an emergency airlock. Though the older Force Warden was skeptical of the plan and his former apprentice's flying tricks, Mordain-Fall claimed that the enemy forces were focused on handling repairs rather than watching for intruders. After successfully landing on the Malevolence , the pair quickly destroyed the battle droids greeting them. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were patched through to direct communication with Amidala, who informed them of her location and also berated them for coming to rescue her rather than continue with destroying the warship. Nala informed the trio that the best place to meet would be a large, open area in the center of the ship, which the Force Warden and Senator began heading to.
Kalesh clashing with Grievous onboard the Malevolence After the Force Warden rescued Amidala from droids at their rendezvous, Kalesh used the The Eternal Flow to levitate C-3P0 toward him, though the droid got carried away by a rail jet hovertrain . He informed Mordain-Fall of this, and left his former apprentice to reacquire the droid while he would sabotage the hyperdrive. Kalesh's transmission was intercepted by Grievous, who challenged the Force Warden's skills in front of the droids on his bridge. Eternal Flow Adept then made his way to the ship's hyperdrive, but was met with an ambush consisting of many battle droids and Grievous himself. After escaping the situation by destroying the majority of the droids, Kalesh fled to the rail jets on the Malevolence while followed by Grievous. He and the cyborg engaged in a brief lightsaber duel that ended when the Force Warden landed on a lower platform and made his way to Mordain-Fall's escape ship.
Amidala, Mordain-Fall, Kalesh, and their droids fled the Malevolence and contacted the Stellar Dominion fleet as Grievous pursued in a personal starship. As they fled towards safety, the droids aboard the enemy warship completed repairs of its hyperdrive. Grievous gave the order for the Malevolence to flee, which resulted in the warship crashing into the nearby Dead Moon of Antar due to the coordinates in its navi-computer being sabotaged. Kalesh was surprised by the move, and was informed by Mordain-Fall that it was always part of their plan. After the destruction of his warship, Grievous fled in his ship while the Force Warden and their fleet celebrated.
Attack of Clone World Station Army Commander Kalesh, Army Commander Mordain-Fall.
Cody. How goes the inspections?
The tracking station in Pastil is fully operational. Ship Commander Rex and I are proceeding to the outpost in the Clone World system.
Good. Report back once you've arrived.
―Cody and Theron Kalesh Kalesh honored troopers that defended Clone World Station.
As weeks passed, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall continued their search for Grievous and his fleet and sent Cody and Rex on an inspection run of their quadrant of space. The pair briefly discussed the intelligence they had regarding the matter, with Kalesh noting that they would find the enemy general eventually. He and his former apprentice were present for Cody's report on his inspections to a Pastil tracking station, and the commander further said that his next inspection would be at a listening post station in the Clone World system —an outpost crucial to warning Water World of potential Separatist attacks. After thanking Cody for his work, Kalesh praised the clone to Yularen and Mordain-Fall, then suggested that his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice get some rest.
While on the Clone World Moon outpost, which had been taken over by droid forces, Cody and Rex's ship was destroyed and they lost contact with Kalesh's fleet.
Hours after their scheduled check in, Yularen attempted to contact them to no avail. Though Kalesh felt that perhaps Rex was the cause of the delay, Mordain-Fall retorted that the opposite could be true of Cody. Both resolved to devise a more efficient strategy to find Grievous, leaving Yularen in charge of contacting the clone officers. Not long after, Yularen was notified that the all-clear-signal on Clone World had been deactivated, prompting Kalesh to sound an invasion alarm and order his fleet to the Clone World system. The Force Warden's fleet arrived just in time to force Grievous' ships out of the system, foiling the cyborg's plot to launch a surprise attack on Water World. After the incident, Kalesh thanked the surviving clones that had defended the station— Echo and Fives —in a medal ceremony.
At some point, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall crashed their Y-wing into a shield protecting a city near the Senatorial Palace as they investigated the activities of some rogue Nightsisters on Ocean World . When the shield was abruptly activated, the starfighter was entirely destroyed, while the dome remained unaffected.
Skytop Station campaign Vex'tara Nala Suicide is not the Force Warden way, Master.
Theron Kalesh You should listen to your The Eternal Flow Apprentice.
Zorvath Mordain As you listened to yours, my old master? No, we're going to stay and fight.
―Vex'tara Nala, Theron Kalesh, and Zorvath Mordain Listen help info Kalesh ordered Mordain-Fall to retreat from his post at Spy World.
Following his escape, Grievous began ambushing Stellar Dominion fleets in the Skytop Station campaign and defeated forces on the planet Falleen Both the Force Warden and the Stellar Dominion has struggles against Grievous, who achieved many victories for the Separatists, proving to be a nearly indestructible opponent for them, leaving a trail of conquest and destruction across the galaxy.
Kalesh advised Mordain-Fall to retreat from his post at the gas giant Spy World , citing that Grievous' fleet outnumbered his. Nala agreed with the Master, though Mordain-Fall insisted on staying to protect the sector . Mordain-Fall managed to destroy the cyborg's flotilla at the cost of losing his droid, Dronix Azure.
A captured Dronix Azure managed to send the coordinates of Skytop Station —a secret Separatist listening post—to Mordain-Fall and Nala. After reporting the information to Kalesh using scramble code 1477 , he instructed them to wait for reinforcements. Though Mordain-Fall wanted to rescue his droid, Kalesh ordered him to destroy the station instead. After the mission and unsanctioned rescue, an exasperated Kalesh grudgingly accepted Mordain-Fall's retrieval to the droid with only a brief rebuke for the reckless behavior. While Nala agreed that the Kalesh's reasoning, Mordain-Fall explained that he knew she could complete the mission on her own so he could rescue Dronix Azure.
Vorthak on Vanqor Zorvath-Kel when I tell you to run, run.
Master! You're alive.
And where's your lightsaber?
It got knocked out of my hand.
By a rock?
Yeah, by a rock.
―Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh, in Vanqor's caves Theron Kalesh using an enviro-suit In their efforts to track the location of Vorthak, Kalesh helped devise a plan to trick the Shadow Spawn into revealing his location. As part of this plot , Mordain-Fall allowed himself to be captured by pretending his Delta-7B Aethersprite -class light interceptor was dead in space, which prompted the Count to tow it aboard a Separatist Munificent -class star frigate to discover where it was stationed. Kalesh then traveled to his friend's last known location—an ice field near the Fringe Territories planet Vanqor —using an enviro-suit and jetpack to travel through space. After sneaking aboard the frigate, Kalesh successfully freed Mordain-Fall from his detention cell and returned his lightsaber to him. The younger Force Warden felt annoyed that he had been the one to be captured, which led Kalesh to tease that when he became a The Eternal Flow Adept, he could make the plans.
Kalesh in a cave on Vanqor Kalesh and Mordain-Fall confronted Vorthak in his meditation chamber, acting in a proud way that disgusted the older man. The Shadow Spawn quickly used an escape chute to head towards the vessel's hangar to head to his Punworcca 116 -class interstellar sloop , followed by Mordain-Fall. After Vorthak successfully took off in his escape vessel, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall pursued him in a stolen Sheathipede -class transport shuttle and called on Nala to rally Stellar Dominion reinforcements.
The Force Warden scored a direct hit on Vorthak's sloop that knocked out his engines, forcing him to make a crash landing on Vanqor.
However, the damage done to Kalesh and Mordain-Fall's stolen shuttle by the Shadow Spawn's escort also necessitated their own emergency landing on the same world. As their ship touched ground, both Force Warden exchanged playful banter about piloting and destroyed the homing beacon on Vorthak's crashed ship.
The Force Warden pair surveyed the area, deciding to start their search for the Shadow Spawn in Vanqor's caves.
Vorthak manipulated the The Eternal Flow to flare the barest hint of his The Eternal Flow presence within the caves, which the Force Warden picked up as he had planned.
When Kalesh and Mordain-Fall entered the caves, Vorthak crashed down the loosened rock above the entrance using telekinesis , trapping them inside. Though both survived, Mordain-Fall had lost his lightsaber, which Kalesh chided him for while cleaning his own weapon. Eternal Flow Adept watched in amusement as a large gundark went after his former apprentice, but eventually helped him throw rocks at the creature to cease its attacks. When the caves started to fill with poison gas, Nala rescued the pair—though both indignantly claimed that they had not needed help and were productively tracking Vorthak. After escaping, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall contacted the Circle of Light.
Ohnaka's pirates They are devious and deceitful and, most importantly, stupid.
It's a wonder you don't get along with them, Vorthak. You have so much in common.
―Vorthak and Theron Kalesh, about Ohnaka's pirates Kalesh and Mordain-Fall with a captured Vorthak After learning that Vorthak was captured by Ship Commander Hondo Ohnaka 's pirates on Vanqor and brought to the planet Pirate World , who hoped to trade him for a hefty ransom from the Stellar Dominion, the Circle of Light agreed to send Kalesh and Mordain-Fall to verify his capture following the suggestion of Amidala. Jorik informed the Force Warden of their next assignment, and the stipulation that they arrive unarmed. Though both Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were uneasy with what could become a hostile situation, Jorik insisted on the importance of the mission. After landing in a small ship, both were led to the pirates' stronghold cells and saw Vorthak hanging from restraints. Though the Shadow Spawn attempted to warn the pair that the pirates would turn traitor on them, both refused spent time sneering and scoffing at him. When the two Force Warden reported in after speaking to Ohnaka, Palpatine had Binks and Senator Kharrus lead a diplomatic mission to trade a ransom for the Count.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall with Ohnaka Kalesh and Mordain-Fall attended a feast after their business concluded, and accepted offered refreshments. However, before a toast both swapped their cups with their pirate neighbors and discovered shortly after that Ohnaka had attempted to poison them when both collapsed.
After taking a sip of their drinks, both woke up in restraints connected to the Vorthak's bindings. After briefly arguing with the Shadow Spawn, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall agreed that they would form a plan to escape their situation. When Vorthak opened their cell using a The Eternal Flow-levitated knife, Kalesh grudgingly told his former apprentice to let the Separatist focus. Though the trio escaped from the room they were in, they were recaptured by Ohnaka's pirates shortly after.
Ohnaka confronted Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Vorthak, warning them not to escape again to ruin his chance at a profit. When the captain left Kalesh mind tricked a guard into opening their cell. The trio crept through the pirate compound, exchanging tense banter. Eventually, Vorthak broke them through a wall and they raced to the edge of the compound. However, Ohnaka caught up to them and put them back in a cell, eventually having them separated from Vorthak and hung by restraints in front of a group of pirates. The captain informed them that their Stellar Dominion had not arrived with Vorthak's ransom and proceeded to electrocute the pair. When Vorthak escaped the compound and knocked out the area's electrical supply, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were freed, holding Ohnaka as a hostage using their lightsabers. Binks and his clone escort arrived, providing the Force Warden with transport off Pirate World. Though it surprised Ohnaka, Kalesh ordered Mordain-Fall to let him go free, as Force Warden do not take revenge—though warned that Vorthak did not share their same mindset.
Orto Plutonia Now that you have created peace between your people and the Talz, remember one crucial thing… Yes, Master Kalesh?
Make it last, senator. Make it last.
―Theron Kalesh and Riyo Chuchi Kalesh and Mordain-Fall met with the Talk people.
Called to the cold planet Orto Plutonia to ascertain why the Stellar Dominion had lost contact with a clone outpost , Kalesh and Mordain-Fall, along with Tribal Worldn Chairman Chi Cho and Senator Riyo Chuchi from the nearby moon Tribal World , traveled to the Stellar Dominion base. They found it to be to be devoid of life, as all clones stationed there having been killed—with a monument of their helmets erected inside. After visiting a nearby Separatist base , similar destruction was found, leading Kalesh to believe that the murders at the Stellar Dominion's base were done by a third unknown party. Logs showed mysterious warriors had taken out the Separatist droids when investigating the world's southern canyon, which Kalesh decided would be a good starting point for their investigation.
Kalesh surprised by a hug given by Thi-Sen in lieu of a handshake.
When Mordain-Fall and Kalesh headed to the location they met the leader of the Talz people Thi-Sen and their associates, communicating with the natives using rudimentary hand signals and drawings. The Force Warden learned that battle droids had attacked the Talz and the clones were accidentally caught in the middle of the conflict. The pair returned to the Stellar Dominion base, and knowing that the Talz only wanted peace, arranged a diplomatic meeting between the Tribal Worldns and Talz. However, Chi Cho angrily refused to accept any peaceful outcome and provoked a war between him and Thi-Sen's people as he refused to accept peace despite the protests of Chuchi and the Force Warden. He declared it an internal affair of Tribal World to remove the Force Warden from the equation, ordering them to submit to him because they were under the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly's jurisdiction.
When Mordain-Fall and Kalesh appealed to Chuchi to find a way to resolve the political matter diplomatically, she contacted the Speaker of the Tribal Worldn Assembly who granted her the authority to negotiate peace and declared the Chairman out of order. Though Chuchi wanted the Force Warden to negotiate on Tribal World's behalf, they refused, as it was her people who the Talz were warring with. However, the solution came too late as Chi Cho was attacked before Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Chuchi landed and halted the Talz's attack. To settle the conflict between the Tribal Worldns and the Talz, Chuchi met with Thi-Sen, establishing an agreement that allowed the Talz to live in peace on the planet. As the Senator and the Force Warden boarded a gunship off-world, Kalesh congratulated the Senator in establishing peace and urged her to make it last and act as an example to others.
Eternal Flow Adept felt that the peace achieved through the balancing of both sides had been a unique challenge.
Blue Shadow Virus A great leap forward often requires taking two steps back.
―Theron Kalesh Kalesh in the virabl bomb room of Nuvo Vindi's bio-lab The Circle of Light later agreed to send Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Nala, to Water World in response to intelligence that suggested that a Separatist bio-lab had been set up on the planet at Amidala's suggestion. When Amidala and Binks lost contact while searching for the lab, Mordain-Fall sent Nala along with the Bubbler native Peppi Bow to locate them. Meanwhile, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall arrived on Water World learned from new information discovered by Ship Commander Gregar Typho that Separatist scientist Nuvo Vindi was using the lab to perfect the deadly Blue Shadow Virus so as to release it into key Stellar Dominion star systems. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall proceeded to plan an infiltration of the facility to prevent the virus from being spread across the galaxy While they waited in the hangar bay, Kalesh took note of Mordain-Fall's increased levels of agitation during the mission. After being contacted by Nala, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall left instructions for her to cause a diversion. On the other side of the lab, the pair entered and met with her before beginning a search for Vindi's viral bombs . Kalesh located the room where the bombs were held with his clone troopers, instructing his men to deactivate them all. Though Vindi attempted to release the virus, the Force Warden were able to apprehend him and rescue Amidala and Binks.
Kalesh talking to an Angel on Angel World As Kalesh and Mordain-Fall prepared to transfer Vindi to Xerion Prime for trial, Nala, Amidala, and several clones discovered that a vial of the virus was missing. Though the alarm was sounded prior to the vial's detonation, the virus was released throughout the lab. Nala, Amidala, and the clones with them were compromised and infected by the virus. As they worked to ensure droids would not escape the facility, Mordain-Fall and Kalesh implored the Water World as to what the cure for the virus was. Upon learning it, the Force Warden then flew to planet Angel World to search for the reeksa root antidote to the virus found there.
While on Angel World, Mordain-Fall destroyed a number of reprogrammed battle droids owned by the local native Jaybo Hood , which Kalesh chided him for. Hood then told the pair where to find the antidote they were looking for, though warned it was dangerous. The young man also informed the Force Warden that the phantom leader of Angel World, Drol , would not allow any individual to leave the planet. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall rode a xandu to the bottom of a ravine and quickly gathered some reeksa root before escaping from the carnivorous plant. Upon trying to leave Angel World, the two Force Warden discovered that "Drol" was actually a Separatist laser security system surrounding the planet and enlisted Hood's help in destroying it despite the skepticism of the other natives. When successful, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall traveled back to Water World and delivered the antidote that saved Nala, Amidala, and the clone troopers. Kalesh also offered Binks blaster training to hone his skills, which the Bubbler enthusiastically accepted.
After the event, the The Eternal Flow Adept became more keenly aware of Mordain-Fall's emotional instability when around Amidala and resolved to watch the pair more closely as the war continued.
Invasion of Ryloth We need to remember why we're here. We came to aid the Twi'leks, not destroy their home.
―Kalesh to Ghost Company aboard the Crumb Bomber Link file info Theron Kalesh and Jorik Vastus preparing to invade Ryloth After the Techno Union leader Wat Tambor seized control of the planet Ryloth and its inhabitants , he implemented a blockade around the world with his Lucrehulk -class Battleship and two Munificent -class frigates. The Circle of Light devised a plan for Kalesh and Jorik to lead a ground assault to invade and liberate the planet after the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly requested them to intervene. Mordain-Fall and Nala were dispatched to destroy the Separatist blockade surrounding the planet to support their effort.
The initial attempt to break the blockade was unsuccessful, which Mordain-Fall reported to Kalesh and Jorik as a heavy loss through hologram, considering the deceased clone pilots and sacrifice of the Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel Redeemer . Kalesh advised him to give Nala time to grieve the loss of her squadron , but added that he would need her assistance to complete their objectives. Jorik informed Mordain-Fall that he needed to break the blockade within the next planetary rotation for the invasion to continue. When Mordain-Fall and Nala's second attempt is successful, Kalesh arrived with the rest of the invasion forces in the planet's vicinity. Kalesh contacted Nala and she cleared them to begin their ground assault.
Kalesh landed on Ryloth with Ghost Company troopers.
In preparing their assault, Jorik asked Kalesh to consider capturing the city Nabat first to secure a landing zone, which he agreed to. Kalesh then boarded a small transport with some of his men from Ghost Company and instructed them to do minimal damage to the local habitat and not harm natives. In space, the rest of Jorik's fleet came under attack by Separatist forces. Jorik contacted Kalesh and informed him that the Stellar Dominion would be unable to use Acclamator -class transgalactic military assault ships and other gunships from Crumb Bomber until the Separatist surface proton cannons were wiped out.
Kalesh and his men landed and steadily made their way to the outskirts of the city, taking out droids as they went. Using telekinesis, the Force Warden helped levitate the droid poppers thrown by his troopers Waxer and Boil to take out a bunker. After securing the wall perimeter Kalesh ordered Cody to send his best men to scout ahead, and the commander ultimately selected Waxer, Boil, and Wooley . Scouting yielded useful intelligence, leading Cody to report to Kalesh and Jorik the placements of the gun encampments as well as the Separatists' use of living Twi'lek shields. However, one of the tactical droid commander TX-20 's probe droids recorded their strategy session and provided it to the leader. When Waxer and Boil failed to report in from scouting after meeting the Twi'lek child Numa , Kalesh became concerned.
Kalesh distracting gutkurrs The general and his troops decided to move forward without the missing troopers, entering the village outskirts. They soon encountered starved native gutkurrs that began to attack them. The Force Warden lured the creatures into an alley using the The Eternal Flow so that the clones could trap them by collapsing a bridge between them. Shortly after, a pothole near them began to rattle, though Kalesh ordered his men to hold fire. When Waxer and Boil then emerged out of an underground tunnel with Numa, Kalesh talked to the girl in Twi'leki and learned that she could lead them to the prisoners. Tasking Cody with creating a diversion for the droids, Kalesh went with Waxer, Boil, and Numa to the underground passages and freed the Twi'lek hostages who fled into the tunnels.
TX-20's tank targeted Kalesh and Numa.
Then, the general proceeded to take control of a proton cannon and managed to take out their cannons with the help of Waxer and Boil loading fuel cartridges in. However, TX-20 blasted the three aside and threatened Kalesh, who was holding Numa in his arms. Before the droid could blast them, other Twi'leks rushed the droid and protected Kalesh, with the Force Warden attempting to shield Numa's eyes from the violence. As Jorik's transports from the Acclamator landed, Jorik commended Kalesh on his victory and they continued with their next mission.
As the Stellar Dominion's forces departed for the capital city Lessu Waxer and Boil inquired Kalesh about the meaning of "nerra," which the Force Warden Army Commander translated as "brother." After Jorik and and his forces reached Lessu, Kalesh led his contingent to capture the southern hemisphere of Ryloth and was able to successfully capture the Jixuan desert . With Jorik taking Lessu and capturing Wat Tambor, the two Force Warden Army Commanders freed the planet from Separatist rule.
A stolen holocron A holocron is no good without a Force Warden to open it. What are they up to?
They must be trying to gain access to the communications center from the vault.
Let's get in there.
―Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain pursuing Cad Bane Kalesh and Mordain-Fall during the First Battle of Fungal World During the First Battle of Fungal World , Kalesh was sent along with Mordain-Fall and Nala to the Separatist-invaded planet Fungal World . While Kalesh stayed with the main body of troops to defend their clearing-based emplacement of AT-TE walkers, Nala led two AT-TE walkers and a Juggernaut tank on a patrol of the dense jungle. Kalesh realized that they were outnumbered, seeing that droids would soon outflank their position. He ordered an immediate retreat as soon as Army Commander Koon arrived to help them, prompting clones to prepare gunships for fleeing. Eternal Flow Adept contacted Nala to do so as well, but the The Eternal Flow Apprentice refused to retreat—claiming her foes were retreating. When Mordain-Fall and Kalesh arrived to pick her up, she refused to pull back until Mordain-Fall convinced her that the battle was lost. As their gunship flew away, Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Nala observed the position she had been at erupt in flames.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall tracked Bane as he stole a Force Warden holocron.
Once back at the Sanctum of Light, Kalesh reported to rest of the Circle of Light about Nala's reckless actions during the battle. As a result, she was assigned to guard duty in the The Knowledge Vault under the supervision of Jocasta Nu. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall attended a strategy session after the meeting to discuss the effects of Fungal World's loss. As they talked, Zephon felt a disturbance in the The Eternal Flow and warned the pair that there would be intruders in the Temple soon. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall surmised that any intruders would likely be breaking in to steal Force Warden transmitter codes and military information, and set out to protect the communications center . However by using the assistance of the helper droid Todo 360 , the bounty hunter Cad Bane managed to sneak into the Temple. The Force Warden pair noticed their systems rebooting and acting strangely and located a disturbance in the Temple's ventilation shafts with advice from Zephon.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall discovered the vent Bane had entered, but were unable to locate the criminal despite their best efforts. Zephon informed them that their intruders were deep in the Temple and had likely received outside help. From the Archives, Nala captured Bane's changeling associate Cato Parasitti and informed the pair of this. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall assumed that Bane would try to access the communications tower from the Holocron Vault and headed to the tower. Bane took the opportunity to steal a Force Warden holocron and sneak out of the building while Kalesh and Mordain-Fall narrowly avoided a bomb set off by Todo 360 in the ventilation shafts. Parasitti revealed Bane's next target would be the Force Warden Bolla Ropal , the keeper of a kyber memory crystal that stored the names of every The Eternal Flow-sensitive child in the galaxy. Kalesh then proceeded to lead Parasitti away while Mordain-Fall and Nala set out to warn Ropal.
Pursuit on Ocean World There are thousands of children on that list. Which will he go after first?
―Theron Kalesh Kalesh meeting Mahtee Dunn Bane managed to capture and torture Ropal, only stopping when Force Warden arrived on his ship. Despite Mordain-Fall and Nala's best efforts, the criminal escaped in his ship.
Both reported back to Kalesh and Zephon afterward, who worried about the future harm done to the children on the list. Kalesh and other Force Warden meditated to sense through the The Eternal Flow which children would be harmed first, coming up with a small list of locations for their efforts—including a child on the planet Ocean World that he sensed. Kalesh then flew to the planet and met the Horn Hunter Mahtee Dunn , the child's mother, and informed her that her child Wee Dunn had been taken by a bounty hunter posing as a Force Warden. He caught up to Bane shortly after while he was holding the child while using a Force Warden cloak as a disguise.
Kalesh defending against Bane's automated laser defense system on Black Stall Station Using a grappling hook , Kalesh pursued Bane across several rooftops, but eventually watched the bounty hunter escape in a Rogue -class Porax-38 starfighter Xanadu Blood . Though the bounty hunter successfully delivered two children to the planet Lava World , he was caught on Water World by Mordain-Fall and Nala in his third kidnapping attempt. Kalesh interrogated Bane aboard a Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel, and used a combined The Eternal Flow mind trick alongside Mordain-Fall and Jorik to compel him into agreeing to locate the holocron. Though Jorik felt that this was an internal matter, Mordain-Fall insisted on reporting to Palpatine of the discover, which the younger Force Warden's former Master eventually agreed to.
Kalesh and Jorik then traveled with a restrained Bane to Black Stall Station and retrieved the missing holocron, but were forced to let him escape through an escape pod after being caught in the station's traps. After Nala and Mordain-Fall retrieved the pair of missing children, they reported to the full Circle of Light.
Kalesh's efforts to assist the stolen child were remembered by the Horn Hunter Chekkoo clan . Stories of the event were circulated shortly after and he was regarded by many on the world as a hero.
Fungal World and bounty hunters We can't just wander around aimlessly. We need a plan.
You always taught me to go on instinct, and my instincts tell me to go that way.
No that—that doesn't seem right. I think we should go this way.
―Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Nala made a crash landing on Fungal World.
The disappearance of a medical station orbiting over Fungal World prompted the Circle of Light to send Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Nala to investigate the issue. Once in the system, their ship was shot down by Separatist vulture droids from an automated vulture droid deployment station . The Eternal Flowd to make a crash landing, the trio ejected from the ship moments before it exploded. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall proceeded to argue about which direction to go, but eventually followed Nala's lead after seeing smoke in the sky indicating civilization. They soon came across a nysillin farm village, confounded by its apparent desertion.
After discovering that the village had been undergoing pirate raids, the three Force Warden met the four bounty hunters that the local Fungal Worldn farmers had hired to protect them— Sugi Embo Rumi Paramita , and Seripas . The village elder Casiss Midagatis explained their current situation, pleading for the Force Warden's help. However, Kalesh declined and insisted on reporting the missing medical station even though Nala disagreed. Ohnaka's pirates arrived at the village shortly after, and Kalesh conversed with their leader while the rest of the gang looked on as they reflected on their past meeting on Pirate World.
Sugi, Kalesh, and others coming to the aid of Embo.
Eternal Flow Adept proposed a deal to the pirates to trade a large sum of credits for a ride to the nearest Stellar Dominion outpost. However, Ohnaka declined and left, insisting that he would stay for his share of nysillin. Though not willing to directly commit to fighting pirates, Kalesh and the other Force Warden agreed to help train the Fungal Worldn farmers to fight for themselves. Kalesh expressed skepticism with Sugi's methods, but grudgingly resolved to hope she could do her job. Mordain-Fall struggled to train the civilians with him as his former Master watched, but eventually helped the villagers learn some skills.
After a pirate scout was killed by Embo near the village when caught, Kalesh noted that when the spy failed to report it would be noticed by Ohnaka. A skirmish ensued shortly after, ultimately ending in a win for the villagers, Force Warden, and bounty hunters. Sugi then offered Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Nala a ride back to the nearest Stellar Dominion outpost, which they accepted.
The Zillo Beast Why would the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter want to bring the beast here? He thinks that by studying it, the knowledge could prove beneficial, but from what you reported, it hardly seems worth the effort.
―Theron Kalesh Kalesh worked with Stellar Dominion forces to subdue the Zillo Beast.
Following the discovery of the Zillo Beast during the Battle of Malastare and its transference to Xerion Prime, Jorik shared his concerns with Kalesh while in the Temple. He agreed with the other The Eternal Flow Adept, he suggested to let Mordain-Fall convince Palpatine to send the beast back to its origins. Kalesh then approached Senator Amidala to help him—who in turn helped him convince Mordain-Fall to reason with Palpatine. However, the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter had already ordered Doctor Sionver Boll to kill the beast to extract its scales by using poison. When the administration of it agitated the creature, it smashed its way out of the laboratory and started rampaging across Xerion Prime to reach the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly building with Palpatine in it.
Deployed to contain the beast, Kalesh and Jorik managed to save the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter using the The Eternal Flow and, later, commanded gunships to distract the beast together with Zephon and the Force Warden Aayla Secura while the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter escaped with Mordain-Fall, Amidala, Dronix Azure, and Mechanica Goldworth. Kalesh and Jorik worked to use the The Eternal Flow to hold their escape ship from falling off the edge of a roof, saving Palpatine. As the gunships arrived and killed the creature by firing poison gas bombs into into its mouth, they and the others looked on in regret. When the Zillo Beast succumbed to the poison, it fell from the roof of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to its death below.
The war drags on Many meetings Kalesh later participated in a meeting in which he and the council assigned Amidala to spy on Rush Clovis , whom they believed to be a Separatist spy.
He was also present alongside Master Zephon and Master Jorik to assign Billaba and her battalion to engage the enemy on Crystal World Second Battle of Rock World I cannot believe we're back here again.
―Theron Kalesh Kalesh, other Force Warden and the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter plan their invasion of Rock World.
Assigned to capture Rock World, alongside Keth'ara Mundis Luminara Unduli , Mordain-Fall, and Nala, Kalesh participated in a conference to delineate the invasion plans to destroy Poggle the Lesser 's primary droid factory, which was being protected by a massive ray shield. With their primary target being the shield generator at the Ray Shield Fortress the Force Warden mounted a three-pronged attack on the Geonosian defenses. Kalesh and Cody commenced the central push while Mundi and Mordain-Fall led the northern and southern assaults, respectively. Though Kalesh was able to reach the landing zone, which was known as Point Rain , the Force Warden Army Commander was injured and forced to wait for Mordain-Fall and Mundi's arrival who, despite their crashing, managed to fight their way up and join Kalesh. In a combined effort, they managed to destroy the shield generator, and Kalesh and Mundi returned to the fleet with the rest of the wounded for treatment.
Following the Stellar Dominion's hard-won victory that was cemented after the factory's destruction by Mordain-Fall, Nala, Unduli, and Unduli's The Eternal Flow Apprentice Barriss Offee Kalesh returned to the planet and mounted an intense campaign to find Poggle, with Unduli spearheading the search only to follow Poggle to the Progate Temple , where she was captured by the Archduke and taken to the lair of Geonosian Queen Karina the Great in the catacombs below. Tracking Unduli's last known location, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall set out with a clone platoon to rescue her, and entered the catacombs only to find themselves before the Queen and her "undead" servants. Soon enough, and thanks to Kalesh's plans, they freed Luminara, captured Poggle and escaped the temple, while destroying much of the Queen's lair during their escape, burying Karina the Great and her warriors beneath.
Kalesh, Mundi, Unduli, and Mordain-Fall, then, took Poggle to Xerion Prime for interrogation, while Offee and Nala brought to supplies to Jorik and Kit Fisto on Pasture World Desert World The story of Theron Kalesh ends here.
―Army Commander Grievous, about to finish Kalesh Soon after The Eternal Flow Adept and Council member Eeth Koth was captured by Grievous, Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Adi Gallia volunteered to engage the Confederacy at Desert World, rescue Koth, and capture Army Commander Grievous.
Kalesh engages Grievous in the docking tube.
Army Commander Kalesh was the first of the Force Warden to arrive at Desert World and engaged Grievous's forces with a fleet under the command of Fleet Commander Yularen. Early in the battle, Kalesh's light cruiser , the Surrogator , was caught in a tractor beam from Grievous's warship and boarded by the cyborg himself. Once Mordain-Fall and Gallia rescued Koth, Grievous dueled Kalesh until understanding that the The Eternal Flow Adept had the upper hand. As the cyborg retreated to his destroyer, he ordered his ship to destroy Kalesh's—who managed to board Grievous' ship with Cody and two other clones before it was too late thanks to Gallia's help. Afterwards, they reunited with Mordain-Fall on the hangar so that they could escape from Grievous' ship. Meanwhile, Grievous was forced to flee in an escape pod and landed on the planet.
While his fellow Force Warden generals continued the battle in orbit, Kalesh led a force of clone troopers to the planet's surface to hunt down Grievous. The cyborg general evaded and fled from the Stellar Dominion forces, hoping to reach an escape pod with a functioning transmitter in order to call for an evacuation transport. When Kalesh caught up with and engaged Grievous, the cyborg fled the battle once a shuttle arrived to ferry him away. Seeing as the mission had failed, Kalesh contacted Rex and told him to meet them to leave the planet.
Warrior World's Death Watch We'll have to stand and fight. Or in your case, just stand.
―Theron Kalesh to Satine Kryze Link file info The memorial shrine being bombed as Kalesh and Duchess Satine Kryze looked on.
When rumors spread that the new leader of the Council of Neutral Systems , Duchess Satine Kryze, was secretly building her own army to fight for the Separatist cause, Kalesh was sent to Sundari by the Circle of Light to investigate the matter. There, he met Prime Minister Almec and re-encountered his old friend, Kryze, who assured him that she was not behind an attack on a Stellar Dominion cruiser. Angered at the accusations, she claimed the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly was eager to intervene in the planet's affairs before being corrected by Kalesh, who claimed to be there on the Eternal Flow Wardens's interest. Assuaged, the Duchess then took Kalesh for a walk on Peace Park and informed him of a renegade group of warriors known as Death Watch when a terrorist blew up the Memorial Shrine where Kryze and Kalesh were walking. When Kalesh had the guards round up everyone at the scene, a man fled with Kalesh after him and committed suicide instead of being captured. As the Duchess spoke to the dying man, she realized he came from Concordia and helped Kalesh reach the moon, where the The Eternal Flow Adept met its Governor Pre Vizsla Kalesh engaging Pre Vizsla in a duel.
Kalesh went out to investigate the mines and discovered that the Death Watch was using one of the facilities as a base. Taken hostage by the Death Watch, he contacted Kryze, who freed him, and together, they tried to escape when they were attacked and the Squad Leader of the Death Watch arrived. Revealing himself to be Vizsla, he returned Kalesh's lightsaber and dueled him with the Darksaber , until he ordered his warrior to kill him with missiles. Kalesh and Kryze managed to escape, barely surviving, and returned to Warrior World. The next day, Kalesh told the Duchess that he believed the Separatists were involved, which only angered her; the The Eternal Flow Adept, then, was joined by Mordain-Fall so as to bodyguard her during her and other senators' trip to Xerion Prime onboard the Coronet On their way to the Stellar Dominion's capital, Kalesh took part of a heated debate with the Duchess over what the best course of action was to deal with the conflict until they took a small break. Then, Mordain-Fall asked him Kalesh of their past, which Kalesh explained he and his master, Vastari, had been protecting her during a year-long, dangerous mission during a civil war on Warrior World. It was then that assassin droids were activated, prompting Kalesh to defend Kryze. When the droids were stopped, Mordain-Fall reported to Kalesh that one of the senators was a traitor, and Kalesh then devised a plan to uncover the traitor's identity by using the last active droid.
Kryze safely arriving on Xerion Prime thanks to Kalesh's help.
It turned out to be Tal Merrik , who took Kryze as a hostage and made his way to the cockpit to jump out of hyperspace, so that droid reinforcements could enter the ship. While Mordain-Fall engaged the droids, Kalesh found and followed Merrik, who would blow up the ship, as he got near the escape pods, unable to make a move on the senator. Afraid she might not see Kalesh again, Kryze confessed her feelings for him, to which Kalesh replied he would have left the Order if she had told him earlier. Then, Kryze took the opportunity to escape a disgusted Merrik and take his blaster. However, neither Kalesh nor Kryze made a move to stop him, leaving Mordain-Fall to sneak up from behind and stab him in the back, branding himself as a "cold-blooded killer." After arriving on Xerion Prime, Kalesh and Kryze reflected upon the situation, and the Duchess flirted with him, saying his beard hid too much of his "handsome face." When Kryze's pleas to the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to not interfere with Warrior World's internal affairs went unheard, Kalesh reunited with the Duchess, advising her not to be rash, angering her. Soon enough, she fell victim to another terrorist attack and barely survived, prompting the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to accelerate the vote—with the Stellar Dominion deciding to occupy Warrior World. Despite Kalesh's plea to help her, Kryze took matters in her own hands, only to framed with murder by the Death Watch.
Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine apologizing to Duchess Satine Kryze.
Asking for his help, Kalesh met her and accepted to give Senator Amidala the disc she had obtained from his contact. Despite an attack by a Death Watch assassin and Kryze turning herself in, Kalesh got the disc through to Amidala, who then played the complete recording from Deputy Prime Minister Jerec in front of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly—prompting the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly to vote against Warrior World's occupation. When the Duchess received the apologies and thanks from the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter and Mas Amedda, Kalesh received her thanks, though the two reflected about not knowing who tried to drag Warrior World into war and have the Duchess framed for murder.
Water World under attack All too easy.
Define 'easy,' Army Commander.
―Grievous and Kalesh Kalesh leading clone troops in defense of Tipoca City After the destruction of the Clone World Moon tracking station, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall intercepted a coded message between Ventress and Grievous about an impending attack on the clone homeworld. Army Commanders Kalesh and Mordain-Fall, Squad Leader Cody, Ship Commander Rex, and troopers of the Iron Phantom Corps subsequently rushed to Water World to aid in its defense. As their ship docked and hundreds of clones exited, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall met with Shaak Ti and Lama Su to warn them of the attack. When the Battle of Water World began, Kalesh and Cody joined Shaak Ti in the command center as Mordain-Fall flew up with a squadron to participate in the space battle.
As the battle in the space above Water World raged on, Kalesh noticed that something was amiss as the Separatist transports took heavy damage. As debris rained down into the seas on Water World, Kalesh warned Mordain-Fall not to attack, believing that not even Grievous would attack so recklessly and that the enemy was up to something. He took a submarine and discovered Ventress's forces readying their assault crafts under water. Several AQ-series battle droids attacked his submarine, forcing him to eject, but he escaped thanks to a passing aiwha . Rejoining the fight, which had now been taken to Tipoca City, Kalesh worked alongside Mordain-Fall again and determined that the sparse Separatist forces must be a distraction and directed his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice to go defend the clone DNA room while he sought out Grievous. Inside the city, he found the cyborg general and engaged him in a duel.
Using the The Eternal Flow to his advantage, Kalesh chased Grievous outside, where he was surprise-attacked and knocked off of the platform by a Trident -class assault ship . However, he was once again rescued by an aiwha. As the clone forces won the battle, Kalesh recovered and the Stellar Dominion won the day. However, Grievous and Ventress were able to escape once again.
At some stage of the war, Kalesh was involved in another incident on Water World; amid a rainstorm, he wielded his lightsaber and deflected a blaster bolt as he led clones in battle.
Ziro hunted I never did enjoy hanging out with you.
―Kalesh to Quinlan Vos, hanging off the side of a cliff Kalesh dueling Bane on Mountain World.
Later during the war, after the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hostage crisis , Kalesh was assigned to track down Ziro the Blob Sovereign and Cad Bane with his old friend, The Eternal Flow Adept Quinlan Vos . The two of them headed to Swamp World , where they informed Gardulla the Blob Sovereign and the rest of the Blob Sovereign council of Ziro's escape and of Bane's help in this act. Though the Blob Sovereign Council denied involvement in this, Vos was able to psychometrically scan a cup, telling him and Kalesh that Ziro had been there. When they got to the prison level, however, Ziro had already escaped due to help from his lover, Sy Snootles . Kalesh and Vos then tracked Ziro down in the swamp , where they saw Bane following Ziro as well, and found Ziro's mother who told them that his son had gone to Mountain World, where he would secretly recover the Blob Sovereign Council records Kalesh and Vos then proceeded to Mountain World, where they found Ziro shot and dead at his father's grave, and were then confronted by Bane. Though Bane tried to leave, Kalesh attempted to arrest Bane for taking the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly hostage and engaged in a duel with the bounty hunter. Despite the Force Warden's best efforts, Bane used his flamethrowers to throw them off the cliff, leaving the two to hang on a cliff, and escaped.
Witch Worldian threat Warrior-like men, witches—this place has all kinds of fun.
―Zorvath Mordain to Kalesh, on Witch World During the Battle of Lava World , Kalesh was chased by Asajj Ventress in her Ginivex -class fanblade starfighter . Mordain-Fall managed to dispatch the tri-fighter that the assassin had sent for him and came to the aid of his former master. He then crippled Ventress's vessel, but not before she managed to shoot down the The Eternal Flow Adept. The two opposing commanders crash-landed in the hangar of the Separatist command ship , Kalesh and Mordain-Fall quickly engaged Ventress in lightsaber combat. Vorthak Drel, upon orders from his own master, interrupted the duel by ordering the destruction of the Separatist command ship to ensure Ventress's death. The two Force Warden fled in their interceptors, presuming Ventress to be doomed, but she escaped and Vorthak ordered the remaining Separatist forces to retreat, thinking she was dead.
Kalesh facing Savage Opress on Winged World After the massacre on Devaron Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were sent to Witch World , as footage had shown the Council of a Witch Worldian's role during the attack on Devaron. Once on Witch World, they made their way to a village , where they were ambushed by the Nightbrothers until Mordain-Fall took their leader hostage; the Horned Warrior then told the Force Warden that a Nightsister had taken one of their fortress , prompting the Force Warden to go there. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall questioned Mother Talzin who told them his name—Savage Opress—and whereabouts. The two Force Warden then headed to Winged World where they confronted Opress, but failed to stop him from killing Katuunko. Using the king's ship as their was destroyed, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall caught up with their target on Vorthak's Separatist flagship; however, Opress managed to overpower them, forcing the two to retreat and leave the ship.
Horain Theron Kalesh fights alongside Ship Commander Rex during the Battle of Horain.
At some point, Kalesh and Rex participated in a battle on the world Horain . During the conflict, the battle droid B1-0516 was hit, gaining a conscience as a result, and began fighting on the side of the Stellar Dominion. Kalesh and his partner were confused, using the opportunity caused in the chaos to escape the situation. They later rescued the droid, which had been slated for reprogramming due to the malfunction. The trio managed to fight off several waves of droids and make it to a Stellar Dominion checkpoint, where Kalesh introduced the droid, now nicknamed "Bats," to Mordain-Fall.
God World Theron-Kal, have you done as I asked? Have you trained the boy?
―Kyrel Vastari to Theron Kalesh Kalesh converses with the The Eternal Flow ghost of his master, Vastari.
When the Circle of Light received a 2,000 year old Force Warden distress code, Kalesh along with Mordain-Fall and Nala were sent to the Chrelythiumn system , where they were supposed to meet up with Ship Commander Rex and an armed cruiser. Though they both made to the rendezvous point, neither Rex nor the Force Warden's ship could see each other. In fact, the Force Warden's ship was guided to a mysterious planet , where they were met by a mysterious figure called the Daughter who wanted to lead them to The Father . Shortly after, Mordain-Fall and the Daughter were separated from Kalesh and Nala.
Trying to return to the ship , Kalesh and Nala met the Son , who suggested them to take shelter from the oncoming storm. In a cave, when Nala was asleep, his late master, Kyrel Vastari, appeared before him, explaining the purpose of the planet they were on and that the three figures they encountered, like Vastari, believed Mordain-Fall was the Chosen One. As Vastari disappeared, Kalesh woke Nala up and they resolved to find Mordain-Fall together, only for the Daughter and the Son to capture them for Mordain-Fall's test. In danger of being killed by the Daughter, Kalesh was saved when Mordain-Fall subdued their captors, proving himself to be the Chosen One, and the three Force Warden tried to leave the planet.
Kalesh trying to hand Mordain-Fall the Dagger.
However, Nala was abducted by the Son, which prompted Kalesh and Mordain-Fall to go their separate ways. While Kalesh went to ask the Father—whom he thought would know what to do—for help, Mordain-Fall went after the Son, fearing he would kill Nala. When he reached the monastery , he witnessed as the Son mortally wounded his Father, and asked the Daughter for help. She then showed him the Altar , where he obtained a dagger that would allow them to kill the Son, and together they faced the Son on his cathedral , only for the darksider to tell him of Mordain-Fall and corrupted Nala's duel. Kalesh then helped Mordain-Fall subdue Nala, until the Father's appearance interrupted them.
As the Son was about to kill the Father, Kalesh tried to hand Mordain-Fall the dagger, but Nala grabbed it and gave it to the Son, who killed her as her usefulness came to an end. The darksider then killed his sister as she stepped in to save her Father. Then, Kalesh witnessed as the Daughter used Mordain-Fall as a conduit to channel the last of her life force into Nala, resurrecting her. The Father then commanded Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Nala to leave the planet before the Son used their ship to do so; however, their ship's repairs forced them to stay a bit longer, so Kalesh let Mordain-Fall go to the Father for guidance.
Kalesh trying to climb himself out of the Well of the Void Path.
The Father then, appeared before Kalesh and told him Mordain-Fall had gone to the Well of the Void Path to confront the Son, only to be shown his future and be corrupted by the dark side of the The Eternal Flow . Kalesh, who had gone to the well, was left stranded in there by Mordain-Fall. Concerned, Kalesh contacted Nala and ordered her to disable the ship, fetch him on the well and meet with Mordain-Fall—whose memories had been erased—and the Father on his Religious Place. There, they confronted a newly arrived Son with the Dagger, but only the Father's sacrifice could stop the Son, with Mordain-Fall finally killing the now-vulnerable darksider. As God World' conflict came to an end, Kalesh, Nala and Mordain-Fall woke up in the ship, as if nothing had happened, and reunited with Ship Commander Rex at the rendezvous point.
The Citadel Theron-Kal, what took you guys so long?
―Even Piell, on his rescue Following the capture of The Eternal Flow Adept Even Piell and his imprisonment in the Citadel one year and nine months into the The Phantasm Wars, Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, Squad Leader Cody, Ship Commander Rex, and other troopers were sent to rescue the imprisoned Force Warden. Joined by a rebellious Nala, who joined the mission despite Mordain-Fall's orders, Kalesh and the rest froze themselves in carbonite to prevent the prison's life scanners from detecting them and infiltrated the prison. During their free climbing to the entry point, surrounded by electromines , Nala snuck through a ventilation duct to disable their entrance's ray shield . However one trooper fell, alerting the prison of their presence. Despite this, the team made its way to Piell and freed him.
Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain after freeing Master Piell.
Piell then revealed that when the ship crashed, he and Ship Commander Vorthak each memorized one half of the intel on the Nexus Route so that if one of them broke, the information would still be useless without the other half. Changing plans, the team managed to rescue the other officers, and were introduced to Vorthak by Piell. Kalesh then suggested for them to split up — Vorthak accompanying Mordain-Fall and Nala, while Kalesh and Piell would create a diversion to allow Dronix Azure and his droids to take them off planet.
However, Kalesh and his team were captured before making it to the rendezvous point and encountered the prison's commander, Osi Sobeck . Dronix Azure and his squad freed them and met with Mordain-Fall's team back at the shuttle, which was then destroyed during the battle that ensued, seemingly taking Echo's life with it. The Eternal Flowd to escape, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall contacted the Circle of Light to send a rescue force to extract them, and continued their escape through the tunnels surrounding the tower.
Piell contacted the Council to inform them of their extraction point, and Sobeck sent anoobas to track down the Force Warden's team. Kalesh, Mordain-Fall and Dronix Azure posed as bait so that the rest of the team could ambush them. Despite being successful, Piell died during the confrontation after telling Nala the intel. She then reunited with the rest of the team, taking a moment to honor his death as Kalesh and Mordain-Fall lowered his body into a river of lava using the The Eternal Flow. Nevertheless, they managed to get to the extraction point on time despite Sobeck's intervention, and fleed on Plo Koon 's rescue shuttle, with Saesee Tiin providing cover fire to aid their escape to Xerion Prime.
Mon Cala and Umbara Congratulations on your capture of the Umbaran airbase, general.
―Theron Kalesh, to Pong Krell When the Circle of Light were looking for a underwater race that close enough to reinforce the Stellar Dominion's forces fighting on the planet of Mon Cala , Kalesh was the one who suggested that Water World may be close enough to help.
Kalesh during the briefing prior to the invasion of Umbara Kalesh, along with fellow Force Warden Tiin, Mordain-Fall, Mordain-Fall's The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala, The Eternal Flow Apprentice Barriss Offee, and Pong Krell , was deployed to retake the planet of Umbara . Kalesh's battalion's mission was to take the capital and met fierce resistance from the Umbaran militia Kalesh then contacted Krell and the 501st, to order them to secure a Umbaran airbase that was resupplying the capital.
After his battalion had been pushed away from the capital due to the Umbaran's long-rage missiles, Kalesh congratulated on his success on taking the airbase and informed him that the capital still receiving supplies, this time from a Separatist supply ship in the atmosphere. He also informed Krell of oncoming, but delayed reinforcements, only for the Besalisk to tell him he would take his battalion to the city regardless of the capital's defenses. Kalesh's transmission was then jammed by the Umbarans.
Despite Krell's efforts to sabotage the Stellar Dominion effort by tricking the 501st and the 212th battalions into attacking each other, Kalesh was successful in taking the capital and routing the remaining Umbaran forces, securing all sectors of the planet for the Stellar Dominion.
Zygerrian slave crisis If such Force Warden as Mordain-Fall and Kalesh can fall, how many other will follow? Imagine an army of Force Warden in your service.
―Miraj Scintel, to Vorthak Drel Kalesh willingly getting pummeled by Zygerrian commander Darts D'Nar Ten rotations after Master Zephon's last contact with the Togruta colony of Kiros , Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, Nala, Ship Commander Rex, and Squad Leader Cody landed on the colony, where they found no inhabitants and fought their way through droid contingents on BARC speeders to the governor's tower . Once they had the Separatist headquarters surrounded inside the governor's tower, Cody showed Kalesh a message from the Separatist commander, Darts D'Nar , asking him to come to the tower to negotiate terms of "surrender." When Mordain-Fall became angry at recognizing D'Nar as a Zygerrian slaver , Kalesh told his old apprentice to look for the colonists while he negotiated with D'Nar and explained Mordain-Fall's history with slavery to Nala, who assured Kalesh she would keep an eye on him.
Kalesh then went into the tower and interrupted D'Nar's meeting with Vorthak and Zygerrian Prime Minister Atai Molec to negotiate terms of surrender—the Stellar Dominion's surrender. Kalesh then turned his comlink on so that Mordain-Fall and Vex'tara could hear the fact that the Zygerrian had several bombs planted throughout the city. Kalesh then surrendered, but challenged D'Nar to a duel in the Zygerrian way (with no weapons) to distract him while Mordain-Fall and Nala disarmed the bombs. Though he received a good beating from D'Nar, Kalesh successfully beguiled the Zygerrian, who set off his last bomb located on his tactical droid and escaped from the The Eternal Flow Adept. Unable to pursue him, he told Mordain-Fall and Nala of his departure. After Mordain-Fall captured D'Nar and his ship, Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Nala then contacted the Circle of Light, informing them of the Zygerrians' abduction of the colonists.
Kalesh, Rex, and Governor Roshti trying to escape.
Using D'Nar's ship, Kalesh, along with Mordain-Fall, Nala, Ship Commander Rex, and Dronix Azure, traveled to Zygerria. Upon arrival they formed two teams; Mordain-Fall and Nala went to talk to Queen Miraj Scintel disguised as master and slave, respectively, while Kalesh and Rex, disguised as Zygerrian traders, tried to locate the kidnapped colonists from Kiros. The two proceeded to the Royal palace's slave pits where they found the Togrutan Governor of Kiros, Gupat Roshti , weak and broken from his ordeal. With Rex, Kalesh decided to take him to safety on a brezak , only for Kalesh to be shot in the shoulder and captured along with Roshti, with Rex safely escaping. Chained to a wall and tortured for information, Kalesh was recognized as a Force Warden by Prime Minister Atai Molec, and prepared to sell him at that night's auction block.
At the auction, Roshti and Kalesh were the first slaves to be put on offer, and Queen Scintel ordered Mordain-Fall to torture Kalesh with a shock whip before the eyes of the assembled bidders. Once Mordain-Fall entered the arena however, he signaled to Dronix Azure, who launched Kalesh's, Mordain-Fall's, and Nala's lightsabers to their owners, while Rex aided them with a blaster. Despite their efforts, however, the whole team was soon captured and separated. While Mordain-Fall and Nala were kept in Zygerria, Kalesh, Rex and Roshti were taken to Kadavo , where the rest of the Kiros colonist were kept. There, the Force Warden Army Commander was forced into submission by the center's warden, Agruss , who emphasized his point by dropping several Togrutan prisoners to their deaths and threatening to do worse to the others, should Kalesh ever think of rebellion.
Kalesh and Rex during their enslavement on Kadavo.
On Kadavo, Kalesh and Rex were soon forced into working in the mines, where he had a hard time scrounging up any spark of hope for himself or the unfortunate prisoners, since every time he did so, one of the Togrutans was punished in his place in order to heighten his despair. Following the Queen's death at the hands of Vorthak and her last words telling Mordain-Fall where Kalesh was, Kalesh was part of a conference with Vorthak Drel in the facility control room. Despite Vorthak's wish to execute Kalesh, Mordain-Fall arrived to Kadavo with Force Warden reinforcements. During the battle that ensued, Kalesh and Rex fought in the room, killed Agruss and escaped the facility, while Nala and troopers rescued the Togruta prisoners before the Stellar Dominion forces destroyed the labor facility.
Plot to kidnap the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter How do I look?
Like a criminal. Should buy you all the credibility you need in prison.
―Theron Kalesh and Jorik Vastus Kalesh, disguised as Rako Hardeen Following Moralo Eval 's capture by the Stellar Dominion and his imprisonment in the Stellar Dominion Judiciary Central Detention Center , Kalesh became part of a plot with Zephon and Jorik Vastus to stop Eval's machinations to kidnap Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine. To do so, he allowed himself to be shot by a sniper Rako Hardeen , in front of Mordain-Fall and Nala, who then believed him to be dead.
Following his funeral , Kalesh assumed the identity of his apparent killer and had his physical appearance altered . In addition, once Kalesh and Jorik recorded a sample of Hardeen's voice in Trueping's , Kalesh swallowed a vocal emulator to perfectly disguise his voice as Hardeen's. Kalesh would operate under the alias "Ben," the same name Kryze had referred to him with years prior, for the duration of the mission. Kalesh was then sent to the detention center, where he formed a partnership with Eval, who trusted Kalesh and thought he could be useful, and Cad Bane, who did not. When a prison riot broke out, courtesy of Boba Fett and Bossk , Kalesh worked to escape with Bane and Eval. Kalesh discreetly used the The Eternal Flow to aid in their escape, opening a lock after Bane failed to bypass it. Bane was suspicious of Kalesh due to his unwillingness to kill the prison staff, but despite this, they left Xerion Prime for Swamp World.
When they arrived at Swamp World, Kalesh crashed their ship in order to cover their trail. The trio then proceeded to try to find supplies and a new ship in the town of Bilbousa . Bane grew even more distrustful of Kalesh after Kalesh's kind treatment of Pablo , the owner of the pawnshop that the trio went to. Kalesh, suspecting betrayal, planted a tracking device on the new ship he bought, so that when Bane left Kalesh to be arrested by the local authorities, the Force Warden turned the frequency of the tracking device over to his captors, who shot Bane and Eval's ship down. Kalesh, meanwhile, escaped from captivity and purchased another ship, and when Bane and Eval found him smugly waiting for them, they agreed to make him a partner in their scheme. When the trio reached Orondia , Mordain-Fall and Nala caught up with them. During a small confrontation , Kalesh wrestled with Mordain-Fall, whispering "Zorvath-Kel, don't follow me," just before knocking him unconscious and escaping with Bane and Eval.
Kalesh demonstrates his shooting skills in the fourth task.
Eval, Bane, and Kalesh then traveled to the planet Noble World to meet with Vorthak Drel, and Bane and Kalesh accepted an invitation to participate along with eleven other notorious bounty hunters in a test of skill designed by Eval called the Box . "Hardeen" surpassed Eval's tests, the Phindian grew angrier with him after every test. In the fourth and final test, their shooting skills would be tested, with the bounty hunter's target being a moving spot on the wall. If they missed, they would fall into a floor of flame emitters. After Sixtat failed, Kalesh stepped in to shoot the target. However, Eval had laid a trap for Kalesh, as his rifle ran out of shots before he could hit the last moving spot. Eval then removed the platforms in order to kill him, but Bane, now having respect for Kalesh and disgusted by Eval's actions, saved him. Vorthak decided that Eval should not be exempted from the contest and dropped him to the now extinguished floor to fight with Kalesh. Though the Count wanted him to kill Eval, Kalesh refrained, disappointing the Shadow Overlord, who then chose to put Bane in charge of the operation to kidnap the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter.
Within a few hours, the team departed the planet for Water World.
Planning to abduct Palpatine during Water World's Festival of Light , the team commandeered a warehouse in Aquatica's Crown and each member of the team was assigned a role, with Kalesh being given the job of the sniper who would fire stun blasts at the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter. When he was in position, Kalesh contacted Jorik to tell him what he knew of the plan. Later that night, despite Mordain-Fall and Jorik's efforts during the skirmish , the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter was kidnapped by Bane and Eval. Kalesh followed them with Jorik and Mordain-Fall close behind, and the criminal pair was arrested and the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter recovered when they stopped at the rendezvous point.
However, he agreed on Mordain-Fall's doubts about knowing the full truth, and returned to the apartment where he had had his position as a sniper, and discovered an activated comlink in his rifle case. Realizing Vorthak's hand in it, Kalesh rushed back to the Royal Palace, where he discovered Mordain-Fall dueling with Vorthak, while Palpatine was held by a MagnaGuard . After Kalesh rescued the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter and Vorthak fled, Palpatine thanked the Force Warden for their bravery.
Maul's return You know, when I cut you in half, I should have aimed for your neck instead.
―Theron Kalesh, to Maul Like Master Zephon and Mordain-Fall, Kalesh sensed a disturbance in the The Eternal Flow one that signaled the return of his old enemy, former Shadow Overlord Maul, whom he believed to have killed on Water World, only to have survived and make his way to a dump in Lotho Minor . Rescued by Savage Opress and his sanity restored by Mother Talzin, Maul sent a message to the Circle of Light, threatening to execute innocent people on Raydonia if Kalesh did not come to face him.
Kalesh facing a vengeful Maul.
Kalesh arrived in a burning village with Maul awaiting him. Though the The Eternal Flow Adept was unsure if Maul was who he claimed to be, the Witch Worldian proved it by telling him about their shared experience at the Battle of Water World. The two engaged in a fight and Kalesh was overpowered at the hands of his old enemy, who had the help of Opress. Kalesh was then brought aboard the brothers' ship , who intended to have the Force Warden awake so that his death would be as painful as the last ten years of his life had been. However, Kalesh was rescued by Asajj Ventress, who was trying to collect the bounty on Opress' head. After being freed, Kalesh used one of her lightsabers to duel Maul in the cargo area of their ship. Though he almost gave in to rage, Kalesh gained the upper hand with the help of Ventress and together, they managed to trap Maul and Opress in the back of the ship, leaving the brothers stranded, but alive, in space.
Aiding the Beast World rebels Now, to be clear, we are not here to fight your war; rather, to show you how to conduct it in the most efficient and successful way possible.
―Theron Kalesh Kalesh attended a session of the Circle of Light when rebels Saw Gerrera and Lux Bonteri contacted them with a request for assistance in their struggle against the Separatist forces on Beast World , led by King Sanjay Rash . Kalesh pointed out that at the beginning of the war, Beast World made their intentions to join the Separatists, but Gerrera said that their true king was silenced by the fake. The Council refused to help, but did consent to send advisers to train and advise them. Kalesh went there with Mordain-Fall, Nala, and Rex.
On Beast World, Kalesh met the rebels and their charismatic leader Steela Gerrera – alongside his friends and together, they began to train the rebels in combat. When the Separatists discovered their outpost and attacked, Kalesh and his fellow Force Warden assisted in battle, though cautious not to be in the thick of the battle. When the skirmish concluded, a strategy was devised to get into the capital city of Iziz Once in there, Kalesh, Mordain-Fall and Rex decided to leave for Xerion Prime to report to the Council, leaving Nala as a liaison to the rebels. However, they decided to ensure that Nala did not reveal her Force Warden identity, though allowing her to accompany the rebels on strike.
After that, they kept in frequent communication with her.
Kalesh attended the funeral service for Steela after the final battle after she had perished.
Younglings in peril For now, be proud. You have survived an ordeal few your age could. Welcome home, young Force Warden.
―Theron Kalesh While Kalesh was stationed aboard his flagship, the Dominator Vessel Negotiator , he was contacted by Force Warden initiates aboard the transport Crucible , who informed him that their guardian, Vex'tara Nala, had been kidnapped by Hondo Ohnaka's pirates. The younglings said they wanted to rescue Nala from the pirates, but Kalesh told them to stay on the Crucible for their safety.
Kalesh faces off with Grievous in the Negotiator hangar.
Kalesh was intending to send Squad Leader Cody to rescue the stranded Force Warden, but his plans were interrupted by an unforeseen attack by Army Commander Grievous on his fleet. Grievous's ships quickly gained the upper hand on Kalesh's, destroying several of his vessels. Upon learning that Grievous had sent a boarding party to board his ship, Kalesh and the clone forces on the ship stationed themselves in the hangar in order to repel it. Grievous himself accompanied the boarding party, and Kalesh began dueling with him as the clone troopers and battle droids engaged each other. Soon, however, Kalesh realized that this was a battle that he could not win, and as he retreated through the passageways of the Dominator Vessel he ordered the crew to abandon ship and initiated the ship's self-destruct sequence . When Grievous arrived on the bridge, he found a hologram recording of Kalesh. Through it, Kalesh conceded the victory to Grievous, but informed him that the ship was about to explode. Kalesh escaped the destruction on an escape pod, as did Grievous, who evacuated Kalesh's ship on a shuttle just before it exploded.
Soon after, Kalesh joined Nala, the younglings, who had gone to rescue Nala despite Kalesh's orders, and members of the pirate gang, including Ohnaka himself. After Grievous's defeat of Kalesh, he had attacked the pirates' stronghold, and the Force Warden and pirates had joined forces against Grievous and barely escaped with their lives.
D-Squad's mission Kalesh was present when the Circle of Light sent Colonel Meebur Gascon and a team of droids to infiltrate a Separatist dreadnought located deep within Separatist-controlled space, and recover an encryption module , which had been scrambling Separatist communications within the region.
Mission to Bray Life on Bray has always been hard, but since the arrival of the dark lord, it has been a living nightmare.
―A Brayan to Theron Kalesh Vorthak introduces the Force Warden to Ravna Kalesh, along with Gallia, Cody, and several troops went to Bray in response to a cry for help. Upon their arrival, the inhabitants told Kalesh about a Void Master that was plaguing their village was desecrating the Citadel of Light . Kalesh was skeptical of the natives' claims until the power went out and came under attack by several mynocks . Kalesh and Gallia decided to investigate the Citadel. They then discovered that the mynock had affected trooper Peel and transformed into a creature . Kalesh came under attack by Peel until Cody stunned him and locked him away.
Kalesh, along with Gallia, entered the Citadel to find a cure. Inside, they found Vorthak and the Void Master Ravna . Kalesh attempted to use his lightsaber on Ravna to no avail. Ravna was able to subdue Kalesh, while Vorthak used his lightning to subdue Gallia. Kalesh tried to convince Vorthak not to use Ravna's powers. However, Ravna betrayed and affected Vorthak. Kalesh was able to break through to Vorthak by making him give in to his anger and make him attack Ravna. As Vorthak used his lightning on Ravna, Kalesh and Gallia were able to use the The Eternal Flow to collapse the Citadel and entomb Ravna.
Nearing the end of the war Fighting Oppress and Maul I lost someone important to me. And I understand anger in a way I never have.
―Theron Kalesh speaks to Zorvath Mordain after Satine Kryze's death When the two brothers attacked Cybloc Transfer Station in the Meridian sector , the space station sent out a distress signal , leading Kalesh and Gallia there to investigate about the two brothers, who were now operating under Maul's singular vision . The Force Warden learned they were headed to Pirate World. There, Kalesh contacted Hondo Ohnaka to inquire about the situation, who said that "two horned men" had appeared and threatened to attack his stronghold with pirates who had betrayed him. Kalesh told him he was unable to help him with his men, but that he could help stop the Shadow Spawn Theron Kalesh fights Maul and Savage Opress Kalesh and Gallia managed to engage Maul and Opress just as they began their attack on Pirate World. As the fight progressed, Gallia was slain by Opress and, after taking up his fallen comrade's lightsaber to help defend himself, Kalesh was forced to retreat and reunite with Ohnaka. Inside a cave, Ohnaka decided to ambush the men while Kalesh decided to confront Maul and Opress. With great skill and Gallia's lightsaber, Kalesh violently fought the pair, changing to Ataru and demonstrating mastery of his former fighting style. Eventually, he injures Opress' knee and cuts his left arm off. However, before Kalesh could continue the fight, Maul The Eternal Flow-pushed him into another part of the cave, bringing the fight to an end. Realizing their plan had failed, the Witch Worldians left and headed off-planet to try again another time. Their ship, however, was shot down and the two were forced to head for an escape pod. As the ship fell, Kalesh went with Hondo to see "what riches  fallen from the sky," but there were no signs of Maul nor Opress, leaving Kalesh to doubt their demise.
Following the confrontation, Kalesh returned to Xerion Prime where he explained to Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine about the situation regarding Maul, but Palpatine dismissed the Maul's threat, saying that the Force Warden needed to focus on the Separatist threat, despite Kalesh's fears of the criminal underworld being a place where Maul could flourish.
Warrior World's fall and losing Satine Kryze I know where you're from. I've been to your village. I know the decision to join the dark side wasn't yours. The Nightsisters made it for you.
―Theron Kalesh Following Maul's takeover of Warrior World, Kalesh was summoned to meet with Zephon and Keth'ara Mundis in the communications room. The two showed him a transmission that had been sent by Satine Kryze from Warrior World. In the message, she stated that her government had been overthrown by rogue criminals , only for the transmission to be abruptly cut.
Kalesh noticed the super commandos surrounding his friend, wanting to go to Warrior World to help her. However, he simply chose to tell the Masters that the Death Watch was most likely responsible for any hostile takeover that took place.
Zephon and Mundi expressed reluctance to take part in the internal affairs of Warrior World without The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly approval, despite Kalesh's protests.
Kalesh chose to go to Warrior World anyways, borrowing the Twilight vessel with Mordain-Fall's blessing and heading to Sundari. Though Mordain-Fall wished to come as well, Kalesh insisted that one Force Warden would be easier to hide than two. Kalesh brought the armor of Rako Hardeen, which he had saved from that previous mission, to use in the endeavor. The Master, who despised the way the Twilight flew, was happy to leave it behind once on the planet.
Satine Kryze dying in the arms of Kalesh.
Kalesh proceeded to trick a guard and took his armor Disguised, he entered the prison complex using a stolen code cylinder, wandering through a maze of cells.
When he freed Kryze from her cell, she expressed her relief to see him, despite their grim circumstances.
Kalesh admitted that the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly nor the Council had approved their mission, which could prove to make their escape more difficult. The Force Warden acted as if Satine was his prisoner, transferring her through a turbolift until being questioned about the prisoner transfer. Kalesh responded to the query by knocking the asking commando out, hurriedly ushering Satine onto a speeder to make their escape.
However, the pair was chased, leading them to quip about their many memories together.
After rushing up the ramp of their ship, Kalesh realized that his borrowed ship could not withstand an attack, and agreed to contacting Satine's sister, Bo-Katan, for help. The ship quickly took damage from enemy fire, resulting in Kalesh and Satine being forced to leave it behind. The Force Warden used the The Eternal Flow to break their falls, but then crashed to the platform when their ship came down on top of them.
Realizing who was on planet, Maul personally hunted down Kalesh and managed to ensure that the Twilight was shot down before it could leave. Maul captured the now-dizzy and injured Kalesh as Opress lifted an unconscious Kryze, and ordered them taken back to the royal palace In the palace, Maul, realizing Kalesh's feelings for Satine, decided to execute her with Kalesh watching, hoping that he would feel the same pain Maul did when he was forced to live in exile after being brutally injured by Kalesh on Water World. Maul again attempted to sway Kalesh to the dark side, but the The Eternal Flow Adept refused, saying those who oppose it were more powerful than those use the dark side could ever be.
Kalesh instead talked about the Witch Worldian's own past, recognising that Maul had his future stolen and was groomed to become the creature of anger and vengeance who stood before him. He hoped that by matching the Shadow Spawn's fury with understanding and sympathy he could reach Maul and both save Satine's life and turn the Witch Worldian away from the dark path he had been forced on. But Kalesh's fear for Satine's life and anger towards Maul made his words more venomous than the Force Warden intended.
Angered by Kalesh's statements, the commandos forced Kalesh to his knees. Maul let Satine go briefly, but stabbed her with the Darksaber. She ultimately died in Kalesh's arms saying with her last breath, that she always loved him and always would. Maul taunted Kalesh, but Kalesh replied that only the weak embraced the dark side. Maul, then, had his guards escort Kalesh to a cell where he could "drown in his misery" and "rot." Kalesh deeply grieved her death, feeling strong anger after it as he envisioned revenge. However, he decided not to act on his emotions and betray what he had worked to become as a Force Warden, and Maul had him imprisoned again.
Kalesh freed by Bo-Katan.
Satine's sister Bo-Katan and her renegade Nite Owls team, however, intercepted Kalesh as he was being transferred to the prison area. Katan freed Kalesh and gave him his lightsaber back, informing the Master that she was there to rescue him. In return, she had him help her find Maul and kill him. Meanwhile, unbeknownst to them, Void Collectiveus the Shadow appeared and engaged Maul and Opress in a duel, defeating the former and killing the latter. As the conflict escalated, Kalesh made his way to his ship and was told by Bo-Katan to warn the Stellar Dominion of what had happened. Kalesh told her that it would lead to an invasion of Warrior World, but she said that Maul's death would be worth it, and that they would survive. Kalesh, before leaving, asked Bo-Katan if Satine was her sister, and apologized for her loss.
Returning to Xerion Prime, Kalesh reunited with Mordain-Fall, who asked his former master what had happened. Though his words came as a struggle, Kalesh admitted he had lost "someone important" to him. He also revealed that he understood anger in a new way and that he now knew how difficult it was to not give into the emotion. Mordain-Fall held Kalesh's gaze for sometime before the two left for the Circle of Light together, as Kalesh knew he had to report what had happened.
Temple bombing crisis Surely we cannot do what Vorthak suggests. We need to stand together with Vex'tara.
―Theron Kalesh Following the bombing at the Sanctum of Light, Kalesh took part of the Circle of Light meeting in which Zephon and Jorik requested that Mordain-Fall and Nala investigate the incident and find the culprit, telling to suspect even their fellow Force Warden. When Nala and Mordain-Fall told the Council of their progress―following a clue that led them to Jackar Bowmani , Kalesh was present again as a hologram.
Kalesh also attended to the funeral for the victims of the bombing.
Kalesh as part of the Council of Judgement.
Later on, Kalesh was made aware of a Separatist attack on Desert World. To alert his fellow Force Warden in the Sanctum of Light's war room, and held a conference where he was suggested for their fleets to move to the Anoat system and move across to Desert World, when he was interrupted by Fleet Commander Vorthak, who told the Council that Nala was requested by Letta Turmond Following Nala's escape from authorities to prove her innocence, Kalesh along with the rest of the Force Warden High Council, and Mordain-Fall held a emergency meeting with Vorthak declaring to them that Nala was now accused of sedition . With Mordain-Fall and Plo Koon doubtful of her guilt, Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon sent the two to find her, but Jorik attempted to have Mordain-Fall left out of the matter, believing having him involved would only making things worse due to his emotional bond with Nala. However, Kalesh convinced the Council otherwise, stating Mordain-Fall knew Nala best and that it would be foolish to take him off the mission.
After her capture , Kalesh listened to Vorthak as he informed the Council that the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly requested for Nala to be expelled from the Eternal Flow Wardens and turned over to the Stellar Dominion military so she could receive more "impartial" judgement. Kalesh tried to convince his fellow Council members that they should side with Nala, but they all refused to do so, as they feared that protecting Nala would damage their ties with the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. Despite his reluctance to hand Nala over to the Stellar Dominion, Kalesh took part in Nala's trial in the Chamber of Judgment , where the Council stripped the young Togruta of her rank and status as a Force Warden.
Like other members of the Council, Kalesh was present during Nala's military trial as presided over by Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine and during Barriss Offee's confession, which confirmed Nala's innocence. Along with the Council, Kalesh agreed that Nala should rejoin the Order and was present when Jorik and Zephon proclaimed her to be a true Force Warden, worthy of becoming a The Eternal Flow Warrior, only for her to refuse readmission. When Mordain-Fall ran after Nala, Kalesh started to follow, but Plo Koon placed a hand on his shoulder, silently advising him not to. Despite Mordain-Fall's attempts to convince her to reconsider, Nala parted with the Force Warden.
Following the event, Mordain-Fall's regret at her departure soured his mood, which he reflected on to Amidala. Hesitant to lose more people close to him, Mordain-Fall was reluctant to leave on his next mission, but eventually went with Kalesh on an assignment that ended successfully.
Water Worldan conspiracy The clone in question is now dead, and the Force Warden still suspect nothing.
―Vorthak Drel, to Void Collectiveus the Shadow After clone trooper Tup murdered Force Warden Army Commander Tiplar during a battle on Ringo Vinda and had been sent to Water World for examination, The Eternal Flow Adept Shaak Ti held a meeting with the Circle of Light, of which Kalesh took part of. Between her wanting an atomic brain scan on Tup and Nala Se wanting to terminate the clone and do an autopsy, Kalesh asked what the Water Worldan thought of her and advised that Tup be brought back to the Sanctum of Light where he could be examined through the The Eternal Flow.
However, the full extent of the Water Worldans' plot was only discovered by Fives, who died before he could warn the Force Warden of Order 66 Clovis returns Zorvath-Kel, I understand to a degree what is going on. You've met Satine. You know I once harbored feelings for her. It's not that we're not allowed to have these feelings. It's natural.
Senator Amidala and I are simply friends.
And friends you must remain. As a Force Warden, it is essential you make the right choice, Zorvath-Kel, for the Order.
―Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain Following Senator Amidala's mission to Scipio where she cooperated with Rush Clovis to expose the InterGalactic Banking Clan and Mordain-Fall's continuous demonstrations of animosity towards Clovis, Kalesh visited Mordain-Fall in his quarters to discuss his and Zephon's concerns that his judgment regarding Clovis were "clouded" after the event on Rich World. Kalesh told Mordain-Fall that he could not let his feelings for Amidala get in the way of his judgement. He tried to resonate with his former padawan by mentioning how he had similar feelings for Satine as Zorvath-Kel did for Padmé, but Zorvath-Kel was not receptive and Theron-Kal left after reiterating that he could not let his feelings get in the way of his decisions.
Nevertheless, Mordain-Fall was right to distrust Clovis, as his actions not only endangered Senator Amidala's life once again, but also put the Banking Clan under the direct control of Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, thus giving Void Collectiveus the Shadow more power in his quest to form a New Order Sifo-Dyas' secret The creation of the clone army, kept secret from us Sifo-Dyas did. How this was done we know not, yet now a new piece of the puzzle we have. Perhaps clarity it will bring us, yes.
―Zephon After The Eternal Flow Adept Plo Koon intercepted a distress call from a shuttle once thought to have been lost and discovered Sifo-Dyas's lightsaber, he took of the meeting in which Plo Koon informed the Circle of Light of his findings, and Kalesh reminded them that Sifo-Dyas had spearheaded the creation of the Syntheticthetic Being Army. Relaunching the investigation of the The Eternal Flow Adept's death, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were sent to Fungal World to find out what happened to Sifo-Dyas, where they spoke to the tribal leaders. Kalesh was told that the Fungal Worldns had cremated his body and that another Force Warden had been with him when he was killed, and reported their findings to Master Zephon.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall's meeting with the leader of the Pyke Syntheticdicate.
The two were then sent to Oba Diah when former Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, Finis Valorum told Zephon that Sifo-Dyas had been sent to negotiate with the Pyke Syntheticdicate to stop an underground war. Valorum, however, said that there was no other Force Warden sent alongside Syfo-Dyas, but rather his personal aide Silman . On Oba Diah, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall met Lom Pyke , who denied any involvement until Kalesh noticed that he was wearing the crest of Valorum and Mordain-Fall grabbed the necklace and told the Pyke to "stop playing games." Lom finally complied with the Force Warden, and told them that they had been paid by a man called Tyranus to shoot Sifo-Dyas's shuttle down. However, as they feared that anyone who paid for the death of a Force Warden was dangerous, they kept Silman locked away for ten years as insurance.
However, once they met Silman, they realized he had gone mad after being locked up for so long, and were unable to learn much from him as Vorthak arrived to kill him before Kalesh and Mordain-Fall's eyes. After engaging Vorthak in combat, they learned that the man called Tyranus was, in fact, the Count. After he managed to escape, they informed the Council of their findings, only for them to question why Vorthak had been behind the creation of the clone army, and what the game of the yet-unidentified Void Master of the Shadow Spawn was.
Zephon's journey Yet, open to us, a path remains that unknown to the Shadow Spawn is. Through this path, victory we may yet find. Not victory in the The Phantasm Wars but victory for all time.
―Zephon, to Jorik Vastus and Theron Kalesh Zephon conferring with the High Council, including Kalesh.
During a meeting with the High Council, Kalesh, like the rest of his peers, noticed Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon's absent-mindedness following his communion with Kalesh's late master, Kyrel Vastari. Later, Jorik conferred in private with Kalesh that he was worried about Zephon's turmoil and asked him to keep an eye on the old The Eternal Flow Adept. Soon, however, Zephon revealed to the Council in full that a voice spoke to him from beyond, prompting Kalesh and the entire Council to perform a joint meditation with him, but they heard nothing. Though Master Mundi surmised it could be a deception by the Shadow Spawn, but Kalesh dismissed the idea, believing Zephon could not be susceptible to such manipulation, but Jorik replied that, even as wise and old as he was, Zephon was not beyond the corruption of the dark side.
Submitting himself for medical examination, Kalesh, Jorik and Mundi were told by Rig Nema that Zephon was in perfect mental health, even if he approached nine hundredth year of life. Though Mundi suggested the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn could be using Zephon's connection to Vorthak, Kalesh vehemently rejected the idea, saying they all had been apprenticed to Zephon at one point or another. Before the discussion could go on, Nema then suggested a deprivation ritual for Zephon to reach Vastari's voice. During the procedure, Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, Mundi and Plo Koon watched over the small Force Warden, Zephon managed to hear Vastari's instruction to go to the Swamp World system before Kalesh noticed his vital signs were dropping too low and stopped the test. When asked about the procedure by Jorik, Kalesh told him Zephon was sure he had contacted the dead and, like most, he was in disbelief about the whole ordeal, only for Jorik to place guards to keep an eye on Zephon and the small The Eternal Flow Adept to escape with Mordain-Fall's help and Dronix Azure's company, willing to go on a journey that would take him to Swamp World , a mysterious planet and Shadow Spawn World On Zephon's return to Xerion Prime, Kalesh and Jorik greeted him, and Jorik asked him if he had gained some insight on how to win the war, but the old The Eternal Flow Adept told them that he no longer believed that the Force Warden could win the The Phantasm Wars but that, through hope and perseverance, the Force Warden would ultimately triumph over the Shadow Spawn.
Crystal crisis on Sinkhole World How well would you sleep, knowing that I failed you?
Not very well, I imagine. Luckily, that isn't true, and never will be.
―Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh During the last months of the war, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were sent to Sinkhole World to investigate the mysterious death of The Eternal Flow Adept Tu-Anh . Once they landed on Pau City , they met Inspector Jen June who immediately led them to the morgue where the Force Warden's corpse was located. The two Force Warden examined her body, and later went to the location where she had been found, only to determine she had been hit in the optic nerve with a precision laser dart by a sniper. As they found the sniper's position, they found slime on the floor and interrogated the building's owner, Garri , from whom the two Force Warden learned of the involvement of MagnaGuards. Later, they asked Inspector June to analyze the slimy substance, with her concluding it was the secretion of an Amani 's skin and added that Governor Torul Blom wanted to see them.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall speaking to Inspector June.
Though the Governor asked them to leave Sinkhole World, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall persevered and rented two dactillions to go to the city's lower levels and talk to the leader of an Amani tribe there. Told that an Amani outcast had been seen entering a cave not far from there, Kalesh thanked him, and he and Mordain-Fall went to the cave, where they found the MagnaGuards, leading them to suspect of a Separatist conspiracy. Despite some resistance, they managed to get information from the droids that showed them the involvement of the Sugi and went to see Inspector June once again. After she identified the Amani as coming from the plain, Kalesh contacted the Council to inform them of their findings and later attended together with Mordain-Fall, attended the funeral of Tu-Anh Soon after, they reached the Amani settlement they had been looking for, only for their dactillions to be killed and for the Amani to scatter in every direction during the ensuing confrontation, leaving Mordain-Fall and Kalesh to follow the tracks of one that appeared to be their leader. During the hunt, Mordain-Fall mentioned Nala for the first time since her departure, and Kalesh asked if he wanted to talk about it, yet Mordain-Fall refused. Kalesh then suggested for them to set up a camp and rest. However, he insisted on the subject, prompting Mordain-Fall to tell Kalesh he missed Nala and to voice his anger at the High Council for turning its back on her. In response, Kalesh asserted that it had been Nala's decision to leave, and that she had allowed her emotions to cloud her judgement, something against the Force Warden way. Then, Kalesh suggested him to rest, but Mordain-Fall declined so that he could keep the first watch. Finally, he questioned Kalesh on what would happen if he had turned out to be a "major disappointment," but Kalesh wanted to believe it would never happen.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall defending a massive kyber crystal.
However, they both fell asleep and were captured by a group of Sugis led by Chong , who brought them before Endente as Kalesh told Chong of their "intention" to buy weapons. However, they learned Endente was, in fact, selling a kyber crystal and Mordain-Fall prompted him to show it before they made the deal. The two Force Warden were then brought to the starship where the crystal was being kept and escaped from their captors. Once Mordain-Fall took out all the Sugi and recovered their lightsabers from Chong, they were unable to capture Endente and discovered the massive kyber crystal inside the ship.
Despite being attacked, the two Force Warden managed to transport the crystal through Sinkhole World's plains until they reached Pau City, where Governor Blom showed them his true colors and had the two Force Warden surrounded with his men and Grievous's droids. As the kyber crystal was loaded into a shuttle and sent to ship on orbit, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall took June and Blom as hostages, so that their underlings stopped shooting at them, and stole a freighter to recover the crystal.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall planning to escape.
During the persecution, Kalesh contacted the High Council to inform them of their current course of action, and Grievous soon damaged their ship, forcing them to, performing a number five special , crash the ship to damage the hyperdrive and board the ship where the crystal was then held. However, they got separated, and Kalesh landed in a hangar full of droids, where he was soon confronted and captured by Grievous. Following Vorthak's orders to execute him, Kalesh was being escorted to the execution room until Mordain-Fall rescued him. Together, their made their way to the kyber crystal at the vault, where they were temporarily trapped until a squad discovered them. Using the crystal and the The Eternal Flow to knock them out, he managed to get to a hangar where Mordain-Fall got a shuttle for them to escape. Meanwhile, Kalesh set several AATs to shoot and overload the crystal, destroying the crystal and the ship, and escaping from the explosion in the nick of time.
Back on Xerion Prime, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall reported to the Council about the outcome of their mission, when Zephon told them of the use of kyber crystals on weapons of unimaginable power in ancient times.
The dark disciples You were fighting her and chatting at the same time?
It's... Banter.
You flirted with her?
Come now, Vos, you can't tell me you managed to go undercover in all sorts of shady places without flirting yourself.
―Quinlan Vos and Theron Kalesh Even though he disagreed with the mission, Theron Kalesh suggested Quinlan Vos be deployed to assassinate Vorthak Drel.
Upon Mahranee 's fall and the destruction of Army Commander Chubor 's refugee -carrier Stellar Dominion frigate by Vorthak's decision, Kalesh participated in council meeting along with Mordain-Fall, where it was decided to bring about the Count's assassination, for they had reached the conclusion that all that had transpired in the war had been because of Vorthak. Though Kalesh was against the idea, he nevertheless suggested Quinlan Vos to be deployed for the mission.
Once Vos returned to Xerion Prime from his covert mission in Otor's Hub after ending Sheb Valaad 's black market operation, Kalesh greeted him at the Sanctum of Light and accompanied him to the Circle of Light Chamber . There, Vos was informed of his mission, and Ventress's role in it; Vos accepted. At the end of the session, Kalesh went to Vos' encounter at the dining hall and gave him more details about Ventress's character. Afterwards, Kalesh and Vos would prearrange to meet at a bar in Level 1313 so that Vos would keep him appraised of his progress at regular intervals. Vos' absence in their third and fourth would-be encounters forced Kalesh to report to the Council.
At one such meeting, Ventress was the one to appear at the bar, after her mission to rescue Vos from Noble World after he had been captured following their failed attempt to kill Vorthak, she told Kalesh that they had lost Vos to Vorthak and the dark side; the two sat there, together, for a long time. Kalesh would later make mention of their encounter to his fellow Force Warden, among them Akar-Deshu On Maul's tail I sense your turmoil, Theron-Kal.
My last encounter with Maul didn't go so well.
He murdered the Duchess Satine. Someone you cared for deeply.
My emotions are under control, Master Tiplee. I will not fail you or this mission.
―Theron Kalesh Following the Battle of Stellar Dominion World , Kalesh was sent to Stellar Dominion World to investigate who the Separatist forces had been fighting, alongside The Eternal Flow Adepts Tiplee , Jorik Vastus and Aayla Secura. Though the Shadow Collective had managed to collect most traces of their presence in the city Wolffe and his men uncovered a Mandalorian helmet outside the town, which led the four Force Warden on the trail of Maul.
Kalesh during the assault on Maul's hideout Aware of the Criminal Syntheticdicate 's presence on the system, and the location of Vizsla Keep 09 , a Mandalorian supply outpost suspected to be Maul's hideout, Kalesh and Tiplee led an assault to lock the place down until reinforcements arrived. Tiplee expressed concern that Theron-Kal would allow his feelings for Satine to cloud his judgement when facing Maul, but he assured her that he would be under control and wouldn't fail the mission. As the two Force Warden tried to reach the command center, Maul and Vorthak Drel appeared to duel them, with Jorik and Secura joining them soon afterwards. Despite their advantage over the Shadow Spawn, Tiplee was killed by Vorthak, and a Mandalorian assisted Maul by setting off an explosion that injured Jorik and Secura. The Shadow Spawn, then, managed to escape as Maul told Kalesh not to worry, as they would be seeing each other again soon; his alliance with Vorthak leaving the Force Warden perplexed as to what had just happened.
Vos' rescue Ventress is at fault, yes, and of course Vorthak. But this, Masters...this one is our responsibility. We owe Vos the chance to choose again, and, with our help, wisely.
―Theron Kalesh, to the Council Upon Akar-Deshu's meeting with Asajj Ventress, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall met with them and Kalesh promised her that she would come to no harm within the Temple, and brought her to the Council chambers. Despite Jorik's open disapproval, Zephon allowed Kalesh and Mordain-Fall to go with Ventress to rescue Vos. Soon enough, Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Ventress were on the cockpit of her ship, the Banshee , to infiltrate the Separatist dreadnought where Vos, or rather "Fleet Commander Enigma," was issuing orders from.
Stealthily, the three made their way to the bridge where Mordain-Fall dueled Vorthak, while Kalesh and Ventress discovered Vos was still being held captive by the Count. However, Ventress saw through his ruse and tried to relieve Vos from an existence consumed by hatred, but Kalesh convinced her to escape before taking such an extreme action. Barely escaping on the Banshee , they made their way back to Xerion Prime, and Kalesh saw as the Council welcomed Vos and pardoned Ventress.
Redemption of the fallen You misunderstand, Master Jorik. All of you. She didn't just save his life. She saved Quinlan . And...I believe she may have saved us.
―Theron Kalesh, on Asajj Ventress A month later, Kalesh was sent alongside Mordain-Fall, Vos, and Akar-Deshu in a mission to take over a Separatist supply storage base and redistribute the supplies to worlds in need of them. However, their mission went awry when Vos, unbeknownst to them, arranged the base's destruction. Later on, Kalesh and Vos would be deployed to a listening post on Vanqor, but their second fruitless campaign in a row made Kalesh suspicious of a leak. He confided his feelings to Zephon and Jorik, leading them to suspect Vos was the leak. Kalesh would later be summoned by Zephon to tell him that he had sensed concealed darkness in Vos' soul, and the Council arranged an emergency session, in which they entertained the option of executing Vos. Kalesh, however, protested against the idea, and suggested sending Vos again to assassinate Vorthak to test his allegiances.
Traveling to Christophsis, Theron Kalesh bore witness to Quinlan Vos's actions.
Afterwards, Vos had Ventress tell the Council of the Count and Grievous' presence on Christophsis, and the two set out on their mission aboard the Banshee . Kalesh and Mordain-Fall followed suit and spied on Vos, who reunited with Vorthak; they observed as the two dueled, when Vos gained the upper hand just as he let Vorthak live as long as he told him about his Master's whereabouts. It was then that Kalesh and Mordain-Fall intervened, taking the pair by surprised, and placed them under arrest. The two soon escaped from the Vigilance , causing the death of Akar-Deshu and the Chagrian Kav Bayons , and boarded the Banshee , but Mordain-Fall's quick thinking forced the renegades to crash land on the planet.
The two Force Warden pursued the three injured renegades to a Separatist tower , where they surrounded them. There, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall witnessed what appeared to be Ventress' last moments before finding Vos. They transported Vos back to Xerion Prime where the fallen Force Warden confessed all his crimes and Kalesh defended Ventress. After being placed under Zephon's supervision for some time, Vos was released to Kalesh's care so he could take Ventress' body back to Witch World, where she would be finally reunited with her sisters.
Attack on the Force Warden temple Kalesh was present when The Eternal Flow Adept Depa Billaba came out of a coma, having been in the state for six months. Pleased to see her feeling better, he welcomed her back to her duties. Kalesh participated in the Initiate Trials at the Temple, as well as in an evaluation of Billaba's mental state, meant to clear her for service. Though she was unsure of her past failures, Kalesh assured her that success is has never been a prerequisite for service before offering her his council seat.
Nevertheless, Kalesh remained a member of the Council and worked alongside her.
Sometime after Billaba grew interested in making the youngling Caleb Dume her apprentice, Kalesh gave a lecture in the Sanctum of Light central security station for younglings to learn about the Force Warden recall signal, when Dume asked whether the same system could be used to warn Force Warden away. Kalesh was intrigued by the possibility, and the idea would later prove essential.
Kalesh was later present at the temple when it was attacked by Separatist general Rackham Sear . However, the attack was foiled by Depa Billaba just as he and Jorik arrived on the scene.
Struggle for Anaxes I hope you at least told Padmé I said hello.
―Theron Kalesh, to Zorvath Mordain After an assault on Rich World Kalesh became involved in the Battle of Anaxes Following amounting losses on the Stellar Dominion side in and Ship Commander Rex's successful mission to a Separatist Cyber Center with the assistance of Syntheticthetic Being The Eternal Flow 99 to discover if Army Commander Trench was in possession of Rex's battle strategy algorithm Mordain-Fall and Rex were to go on a mission to Gas World Syntheticthetic Being Squad Member Hunter " stated that Syntheticthetic Being The Eternal Flow 99 would be heading to the planet as well. Mordain-Fall believed Kalesh would approve the mission.
While Rex was eager to go, believing ARC trooper Echo was still alive, Mordain-Fall reminded his Ship Commander that they had a "thing" to do: Mordain-Fall was to contact his secret wife, Senator Amidala. Mordain-Fall spoke to her via hologram inside the barracks with Rex keeping watch outside, but Kalesh approached Rex to ask where Mordain-Fall was. Rex attempted to cover for his friend, but Mordain-Fall soon exited, and the two began to depart for the Marauder . However, Kalesh called after Mordain-Fall and revealed he knew his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice had been speaking with Amidala.
Kalesh and Jorik on Anaxes After their success, Kalesh took part on Jorik's debriefing on the strategy to take the Separatist assembly complex by air, when Echo posed his plan to be escorted by the Bad Batch into Trench's new comm vault on a dreadnought on the planet's orbit and plug himself to feed the Separatist's strategic movements. Kalesh took part on the assault and the combined efforts managed to take the complex under their control and, with all other fronts falling to the Stellar Dominion, Trench initiated a countdown for an explosion that could destroy most of Anaxes. While Jorik deactivated the bomb, Kalesh assisted in the evacuation efforts; with Trench's death at the hands of Mordain-Fall and his fleet's destruction, the battle was won. Thanking Ship Commander Rex, Squad Assistant Echo, and the Bad Batch, Kalesh told the clones they would receive medals for their actions, but the Bad Batch intended to leave before the ceremony. Additionally, Echo decided to leave with the batch.
Battle of Yerbana Yes, Cody. You can join in on the fun as well.
―Theron Kalesh, to Squad Leader Cody Kalesh leads his Battalion in Yerbana A short time after they undertook a mission to Rich World, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall were sent to Yerbana to take down the Separatist forces that were oppressing the people in the planet. During the battle, Kalesh took his 212th Attack Battalion to fight in one front, while Mordain-Fall led his 501st Legion into another offensive. The battle proved to be more brutal and problematic than expected to Kalesh and his clone troopers, who were suffering heavily damages from the Droids attacks, and were unable to destroy the commander droid. After saving Cody from a missile, Kalesh ordered his troopers to take cover. Kalesh wondered where his The Eternal Flow Apprentice was as he needed his assistance. Fortunately, Mordain-Fall, who successfully defeated the Separatist army in his offensive, arrived and convinced Kalesh to let him act as he had planned. Knowing that Mordain-Fall had already decided how to act and would not change his mind, Kalesh gave his Apprentice the leadership of the battle. Mordain-Fall faked a surrender to draw out the droid commander. After using his The Eternal Flow abilities to destroy it, Mordain-Fall ordered his Iron Phantom Corps led by Ship Commander Rex to attack rest of the droid army.
Kalesh then gave permission to Cody to lead the 212th Attack Battalion in helping the 501st. Kalesh approached Mordain-Fall complimenting him for his help, to which Mordain-Fall thanked him for pretending to be defeated. Kalesh said he was always glad to help. Then, the two were contacted by Fleet Commander Wullf Yularen who informed them of a transmission going under the code "Fulcrum." Mordain-Fall guessed it might be Saw Gerrera, which worried Kalesh about the current state of the siege at Beast World . Yularen denied it was Gerrera and requested the Army Commanders to attend the call.
Locating Maul I killed Maul once. Best to capture him. He doesn't seem to stay dead.
―Theron Kalesh, to Vex'tara Nala At Yularen's ship, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall entered the room only to witness Vex'tara Nala and Bo-Katan Kryze as the ones that had made the call. Kalesh asked Nala what was the information she had. Nala informed them that that Maul had been located on Warrior World and they had an opportunity to capture him.
While going to greet Nala and her allies, Mordain-Fall, who was still emotionally shocked to see his former apprentice again, claimed that it all made sense, in an attempt to understand Nala's decision to leave the Eternal Flow Wardens. Mordain-Fall told Kalesh that if Nala had not left the Order, then Maul would have never been located. As always, Kalesh was more reserved about the situation and decided to wait and see how the events were to develop, remaining cautiously optimistic.
After a quick greeting, Nala, Kryze, and her Mandalorians were led by Kalesh to a private room to discuss Maul's whereabouts. However, Kalesh was not willing to help Nala and her allies unless the Circle of Light gave their permission, saying the Stellar Dominion could not get involved with Mandalorian affairs. Kryze explained that there was not time to turn that into a bureaucratic decision, as Maul could escape before they made an offensive. Kryze reminded Kalesh that the former Shadow Overlord killed Satine and confronted Kalesh about how could he not want to capture Maul as Satine was supposedly important to him. Kalesh reassured Bo-Katan that he still cared deeply about Satine, but he could not allow his feelings to cloud his judgment. Kalesh proceeded to consult the Circle of Light.
Rescue of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter So that's it? You're going to abandon Bo-Katan and her people?
Vex'tara, surely you understand this is pivotal moment in the The Phantasm Wars? The heart of the Stellar Dominion is under attack!
I understand that as usual you're playing politics. This is why the people have lost faith in the Force Warden! I had too, until I was reminded of what the Order means to people who truly needed us.
Right now, people on Xerion Prime need us.
No. The Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter needs you.
That's not fair.
I'm not trying to be.
―Theron Kalesh and Vex'tara Nala's argument, prior to the Battle of Xerion Prime When Kalesh contacted the Council, he was informed that Army Commander Grievous had attacked the capital of the Stellar Dominion, and that they lost contact with Shaak Ti, Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine's assigned protector. He immediately informed Nala and Mordain-Fall of this, at the same time ordering their fleet to travel to Xerion Prime, reassuring Zorvath-Kel who asked after Palpatine, that they could reach the planet within the hour. This angered Nala, who accused her former masters of choosing to abandon Warrior World. Somewhat shocked by the accusation, Kalesh urged Nala to understand that they were entering a pivotal moment in the The Phantasm Wars, as the heart of the Stellar Dominion was under attack. Nala countered that Kalesh was playing politics, stating that it was proof as to how the Eternal Flow Wardens had lost their way by forgetting that their duty was to help people and not politicians.
Upon hearing Nala explain why so many had lost faith in the Force Warden, Kalesh countered that the people of Xerion Prime needed them, but Nala believed that it was really about saving the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter. Kalesh told Nala to be fair, but Nala retorted that she wasn't trying to play fair. Mordain-Fall heard the argument and weighed in. So as to help Nala in the upcoming siege without compromising Warrior World's neutrality and the mission to rescue the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, Mordain-Fall promoted Rex to Squad Leader so he could lead the mission and had Nala assisting him as an advisor. When Kalesh agreed, Nala accepted the proposal. Instead of allowing his meeting with Nala to end on a sour note, Kalesh advised Nala to capture Maul, joking the former Shadow Spawn did not seem to stay dead, before leaving the room to prepare the troops, leaving Mordain-Fall and Nala behind.
Kalesh and Mordain-Fall inadvertently enter an elevator full of battle droids after boarding Invisible Hand After Mordain-Fall and Nala wished each other good luck on their respective missions, Kalesh and Mordain-Fall traveled to Xerion Prime to rescue the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter. The two Force Warden fought their way through a Separatist blockade and managed to board the Invisible Hand , only to find the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter being held prisoner at the top of the ship's observation spire. Not long after they arrived to the room, Vorthak Drel appeared before them and the two Force Warden engaged him in a duel.
Though Vorthak managed to gain the upper hand and knocked Kalesh out cold, Mordain-Fall was able to defeat the Shadow Overlord, and subsequently executed him at Palpatine's urging. He then rescued Kalesh, carrying him until he woke up when they were hanging in an elevator. As they got out of there and ran through hallway 328, Grievous had them trapped in a ray shield and brought to the Invisible Hand s control room. The cyborg Army Commander personally taunted them, giving Dronix Azure enough time to free them and for Kalesh and Mordain-Fall to confront Grievous. The Army Commander, however, escaped in an escape pod and forced the two Force Warden to pilot the ship and land on Xerion Prime as safely as they could. Following the ordeal, they escorted the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter to the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly building, where they separated, with Kalesh going back to Sanctum of Light to report to the Council of Vorthak's demise and what it meant to the The Phantasm Wars.
Dividing friendship All of this is unusual, and it's making me feel uneasy.
―Theron Kalesh, on Zorvath-Kel's appointment with Palpatine Later, Kalesh attended another meeting, concerning the reports on the Fringe Territories Sieges, including Desert World's fall and the move of Quinlan Vos' troops to Boz Pity . At the end of the session, he met with Mordain-Fall and told him to be careful with Palpatine, and that Palpatine had requested his presence for unknown reasons. Soon enough, Kalesh and the Council were made aware that the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter had Mordain-Fall appointed as his Personal Representative on the Circle of Light; though the Council approved of the appointment, they denied Mordain-Fall the rank of The Eternal Flow Adept, a decision which greatly angered Mordain-Fall, prompting him to question the Council's decision-making. Kalesh remained silent. After being admonished by Jorik, Mordain-Fall reluctantly accepted his position and took his seat on the Council. During the same meeting, Kalesh and Master Mundi discussed the importance of Forest World, prompting Master Zephon to assist the Forest Giants himself.
Kalesh deliberating with the Council At the end of the meeting, Kalesh acknowledged to Mordain-Fall that his appointment had been accepted so that, on behalf of the Council, Mordain-Fall could spy on the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, an assignment that Zorvath-Kel refused to partake in because he believed it to be an act of treason. He tried to convince Zorvath-Kel that something out of place had to be happening for Palpatine to remain in office long after his two legitimate terms had expired and to have accumulated an unnatural amount of executive powers, but still, Zorvath-Kel would have none of it. Later, before Zephon's departure to Forest World, Kalesh conferred with Jorik and Zephon of Mordain-Fall's reluctant compliance on his task, when he heard of Jorik's distrust of the The Eternal Flow Warrior and Zephon's doubts about the prophecy of the "Chosen One." Following the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's disclosure of Army Commander Grievous' location on Sinkhole World to Mordain-Fall, who then passed it onto the Council, Kalesh was sent to capture the fugitive Army Commander.
Immediately prior to his voyage to Sinkhole World, Kalesh contacted Nala and the Mandalorians on Warrior World via hologram. Kryze told him that the clones had been extremely effective against Maul's forces. While communing, Nala mentioned that Maul had said the name Void Collectiveus the Shadow while they confronted one another and Kryze asked who he was. Kalesh admitted that the Force Warden did not know much about him, but told them that he orchestrated the The Phantasm Wars and manipulated both sides of the conflict. He soon informed them about the death of Vorthak Drel during the Battle of Xerion Prime after Nala asked why they would no longer be able to get anymore information from him about Void Collectiveus. With this, he asked them once again to capture Maul so that they may finally be able to put an end to the mystery of Void Collectiveus. Nala asked for reinforcements, but Kalesh was forced to tell them that he was being sent to capture Grievous on Sinkhole World and that he was unable to send support. Nala then asked if Mordain-Fall could provide support to which Kalesh asked to speak to Nala in private.
Theron-Kal shares his knowledge of Void Collectiveus with Vex'tara, Bo-Katan, and Rex.
After Rex and Kryze left, he informed Nala of Mordain-Fall's mission to spy on Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine by the Force Warden High Council. After Nala began to ask why they would give him such an assignment, Kalesh informed her that the Council wished to learn what Palpatine was truly plotting after remaining in the office of Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter long after his term's conclusion. Nala began to argue with Kalesh and said that she couldn't imagine Mordain-Fall could be happy with the burden the Council had placed upon him. Kalesh knew this and informed Nala as much, asking her to speak with him after their meeting ended to help him with his burden. Nala began to grow increasingly agitated with the Council after Kalesh asked this, but Kalesh revealed that he knew the Council wasn't correct in every one of their decisions and that if Nala communicated with Mordain-Fall, it could help them. Before Nala could respond, Rex rushed in and informed the two that there had been an attack and with that, Kalesh allowed her to leave. Before Nala left, she asked him to tell Mordain-Fall something that she left unspoken. Kalesh assured her that he would and, with this, ended the transmission.
With the destruction of R4-P17 and his Force Warden interceptor during the Battle of Xerion Prime, Kalesh was assigned astromech droid R4-G9 whom he had previously worked with during the search for Asajj Ventress and a blue Eta-2 Actis -class light interceptor before his search for Grievous. Before Kalesh's departure to engage Grievous, Mordain-Fall apologized to Kalesh, who told him that he needed patience and that he would soon become a master. The two exchanged goodbyes in what would be their last meeting as friends and allies, a fact neither was aware of, before Kalesh departed for Sinkhole World.
Final clash with Grievous Hello there!
Army Commander Kalesh! You are a bold one.
―Theron Kalesh and Army Commander Grievous Kalesh once again faces his longtime rival Army Commander Grievous on Sinkhole World.
Kalesh was accompanied to the planet by a fleet of Dominator Vessels and battalions of clone troopers that were three times the size of what was normally required to take one minor star system.
Theron-Kal pushed the thoughts of his previous voyage aside as he traveled to the capital of Sinkhole World, Pau City. On final approach, he noticed a significant difference: a Separatist core ship sphere that appeared to have blended with the sink hole's rock face.
Having arrived on Sinkhole World, Kalesh discovered from Pau City Port Administrator Trade World Medon that the inhabitants were secretly being held hostage by thousands of battle droids occupying the city's tenth level . Kalesh took this under advisement and hid out of sight after instructing R4-G9 to leave the spaceport in his Force Warden interceptor, tricking the spying droids into thinking that he had left.
Allowing himself to be guided by the living The Eternal Flow, Theron-Kal visits the holding areas where Sinkhole Worldn wranglers captured native winged and wingless lizards for transportation.
He then addressed the Utai varactyl tamers in search of a quick path there that wouldn't interfere with city life.
Mounted on the varactyl Boga , Kalesh made his way to the Separatist holdout and waited for the The Schism Assembly to depart. He then leaped down from the scaffolding where he had been hidden, just as he had done years before on Rock World and greeted Army Commander Grievous before being surrounded by various types of battle droids. Grievous ordered his MagnaGuards to dispatch Kalesh, who managed to crush them under a piece of the ceiling without engaging in combat.
However, Grievous ordered them to back away as he decided to engaged Kalesh himself, exactly as Theron-Kal predicted.
The cyborg was eager to be the one to directly kill Kalesh directly in retaliation for defeating him previously on Sinkhole World, as well as vowed to prove Void Collectiveus' worth.
Kalesh had fought Grievous many times before and was well prepared, and both were aware of the other's skill.
Each time proved inconclusive, but both realized that this could not always be the case; it would not be an easy fight, but the Force Warden was not willing to allow him to escape this time.
Theron-Kal stood there watching Grievous shrug off his cloak, being told that he had been trained in the Force Warden arts by Vorthak Drel himself. He extends his four menacing arms, ignites a lightsaber in each mechanical hand, laughs, and then the two engage in one final duel. Grievous has taken the lightsabers from his exploits against the Force Warden, Shaak Ti's lightsaber being one of his four primary weapons.
Kalesh would not allow him to do the same with his lightsaber; he learned patience, confidence in the The Eternal Flow, and lightsaber training from Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon and his late Master, Kyrel Vastari.
The two engaged on a walkway suspended above the hanger's lower levels. Grievous moved closer and closer, whirling two of his lightsabers above his head and the other two dragging along, burning the floor behind him, surprising Kalesh with his maneuver. Initially, Theron-Kal slowly retreated and let go of his fear.
Waiting for the right moment, he stab his lightsaber between Grievous' flashing blades. Grievous then straightened up and struck Theron-Kal with both lightsabers, but the Force Warden parried. With the other two stabs narrowly missing Kalesh, he leapt over him and attacked him from the side.
The Force Warden take advantage of Grievous's surprise to slip through his defense, leaving him striking where he once stood.
The cyborg continued to fight back, but Theron-Kal's lightsaber remained.
During their duel, Kalesh gained the upper hand and quickly severed Grievous' two hands.
Theron-Kal was able to neutralize Grievous' customary more wide-ranging fighting technique by limiting his movement to the catwalk. Kalesh maintained the fight close to the cyborg, having grown accustomed to his maneuvers after so many encounters.
He kept his cool and aimed wisely for Grievous' vulnerable wrist instead intercepting his blade, severing his hand. It didn't take long for a clawed mechanical hand clattered down onto the deck, along with the lightsaber he held.
Grievous, furious, launched a wild attack, but he had lost focus.
A few seconds later, Kalesh took another hand and weapon away from him and hands and keep up a solid defense against his unrelenting attacks.
The droids watched as their leader continued to lose ground, but before they could help Grievous fight back, a pause occurred. Not long into the duel, the 212th Attack Battalion arrived and engaged Grievous's forces. As the battle intensified, Kalesh threw Grievous against a wall, knocking his remaining sabers out of his hands and forcing him to escape in his wheelbike . Theron-Kal had just made the jump to the lower level when Grievous fired it up and tore back into the hanger in an attempt to crush him.
All around them, laser blasts and explosions ring out, but Grievous rushes as if the road were clear, dodging collision after collision or unleashing devastation on any clone soldiers in his path or crushing those unlucky enough to stand in his way.
Kalesh chased after the fleeing cyborg on Boga, though his lightsaber was knocked out of his hand and recovered by Squad Leader Cody hundreds of meters below.
Theron-Kal would lose his chance to capture Grievous if he stopped to retrieve it, but the thought of going up against the cyborg without his lightsaber was frightening. Knowing he could trust the The Eternal Flow, the Force Warden raced after him, leaving his lightsaber behind.
Theron-Kal and Boga finally caught up with Grievous, he intended to reach his personal starfighter, the Soulless One , stationed at a landing platform distance from the main Separatist base he was aiming for as a backup plan.
The tunnels become increasingly packed as they travel deeper into the city. Theron-Kal smiles as the Army Commander was forced to slow down to avoid a swarm of droids, his mount capable of achieving things that the Army Commander's speeder-wheel cannot. He directs it to the tunnel's ceiling, where he will no longer be disturbed by traffic congestion. The Force Warden quickly gains ground on Grievous, while the tunnel in front of him leads to a small landing perform. He accelerates once more, catching up to the general.
Theron-Kal had just pressed the general when the Separatist leader, able to control his bike and battle, used the electrostaff that he stored on the wheelbike and began attacking him, eventually being pulled onto the vehicle itself along with him. They eventually arrived at a landing platform, Theron-Kal snatched the electrostaff and was clutching it as Grievous raised the blaster the Grievance Striker He knocks the weapon out of Grievous's hand and lands a few solid blows on the Army Commander himself, his first to the chest, the second to the arm, the metal bends, but does not break.
Theron-Kal knocked Grievous to the ground and plunged the shaft into his abdomen, but the cyborg kicked him away with such speed that the Force Warden cannot.
Theron-Kal ends Grievous with his own blaster.
With no weapons, they engaged in a swift fight using hand-to-hand combat that Grievous was coldly confident of winning.
Grievous closed in on Kalesh, engaging him in a brawl, swinging his arm against him. Kalesh avoided his first swing but missed the second, backhanded across the platform, and bounce off the parked fighter, putting him at a disadvantage.
The cyborg general's physical strength appeared to give him the advantage.
Continuing his assault, Grievous lifted him and nearly punched his head out. Instead, he punched his own starfighter, leaving a huge dent in it. However, noticing that one of Grievous's plates was loose, Kalesh took advantage of his new action, grabbing the metal plates and pulling with all his might, managing to partially tear open Grievous's chest armor, exposing his gutsack. Alarmed, Grievous tossed Kalesh aside.
Grievous laughed, he advanced on Theron-Kal, wounded but far from defeated.
Grievous attempted to crush Kalesh with his mechanical feet, but he avoided.
With the The Eternal Flow, the Force Warden attempted to knock down Grievous with a sweeping kick to the leg, but Grievous, whose metal body was stronger than any droid's shell, hardly felt it and only feeling great pain in his own shin. Kalesh was eventually thrown to the edge of the platform, but was able to summon Grievous' blaster, abandoned a few meters from him, forgotten by its owner, and turned it against him in defense of his own life, just before Grievous could finish him off, firing five shots into his gut sack, igniting it and burning Grievous from the inside-out.
Screaming in pain, letting out a sound that was halfway between a gasp of suffocation and a metal rustle. Then, a sequence of explosions ripped his body apart, bursting into flame and erupting from his helmet's eye slits.
Grievous was already dead; his charred metal body slumped lifelessly and hit the ground over the hangar with a clang.
With his long-time rival and the Supreme Squad Leader of the Mechanical Phalanx slain, Kalesh headed off to rejoin his troops.
Kalesh informed the clones that the general was dead but didn't have time to elaborate; victory looked inevitable.
The battle of Sinkhole World was one of the The Phantasm Wars' last battles, and with Grievous' death, the conflict that had claimed countless lives seemed to be coming to a conclusion, but the Force Warden did not suspect it was also the beginning of the end.
Order 66 My clone troops turned on me. I need help.
―Theron Kalesh to Bail Organa Following Jorik's and other Council member's duel against Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, revealed to be Void Collectiveus the Shadow, and the issue of Order 66, Kalesh met up with Squad Leader Cody and ordered him to contact the troops to move to the higher levels of the city. The clone then returned him his lightsaber, and Kalesh proceeded to climb with Boga, just as Cody received a direct message from Void Collectiveus, ordering him to execute the order. Before Kalesh went too far, Cody ordered his men to shoot at the The Eternal Flow Adept, bringing his fall to the water below.
Theron-Kal had no time or inclination to comprehend why his own men had turned against him. Hearing Boga's heartfelt tears, he felt a moment of sadness that he couldn't help her. Squad Leader Cody, who was torn, saw Theron Kalesh as a threat to his operation. He knew from previous experience not to presume a Force Warden was dead until he saw the body. Time and again, Theron-Kal, Zorvath-Kel, and Vex'tara, not to mention the other Force Warden he'd seen in action, had beaten seemingly impossible odds to come through.
However, unlike many others, he survived and swam towards a cave, fumbling his breather into place, then surfacing, stowing the breather, and managing to climb on his own while evading troops, only to discover the attack had been intentional.
He knew his best chance of escaping lay with the ship Grievous had escaped from so many times.
Fortunately, the clones were unaware of Grievous' escape ship's existence. Even if the cruisers orbiting the planet see him, they will believe he is a Separatist trying to escape from the fight. Of course, he still has to make his way past tens of thousands of clones to reach the ship's platform, but at least his enemies won't be waiting for him there.
Kalesh took to the darkness of the caves, using his lightsaber as a torch, knowing he was still being pursued. At one point, he noticed approaching searchlights at one point. Before the Prowlers discovered him, they woken a nos monster, a gigantic predatory reptile that was protecting its nest. As the creature dealt with the droids, Theron-Kal slipped through.
Sneaking through Sinkhole World's tunnels was difficult; not only did he have to avoid being discovered by the clones, but he also had to avoid the wild monsters that swarmed there.
Kalesh avoided the clone troopers, battle droids, and even the Sinkhole World locals by using all of his abilities.
Arriving at the main staging area, he witnessed with horror his former troops rounding up Ghoul Elders and Utai and overheard Cody asking if his search teams had discovered the fleeing Force Warden. His worst fears confirmed, Theron-Kal headed for his escape route. Carefully, the Force Warden made his way back and arrived at the site of his final battle with Army Commander Grievous, he was relieved to find the small, flat-landing form deserted.
Grievous' starfighter, the Soulless One , sat waiting near his former foe's smoking remains.
He rushes into the fighter, running past the remains of his cyborg rival one final time without even sparing a passing glance at Grievous's body, and fires up the engines and takes off as quickly as possible, relying on the element of surprise to fly past his old flagship and away.
Kalesh and Bail Organa discussing with Zephon.
Taking Grievous' starfighter, he left Sinkhole World and made contact with Senator Bail Organa, who had seen the siege of the Sanctum of Light firsthand and was trying to locate other surviving Force Warden. Reuniting on the Tantive III , Kalesh met with the Senator and Master Zephon, who told him of the retreat message telling all Force Warden to return to the Temple, saying that the war was over. Kalesh then suggested to dismantle the signal, so that others wouldn't fall into the trap, and Zephon agreed.
On their way to Xerion Prime, Organa was contacted by Vice Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Amedda, who told him of an emergency session to be held by the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. Kalesh and Zephon entered the Sanctum of Light and witnessed with their own eyes the massacre that just taken place. During that, Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine told the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly of the Force Warden's "sedition" against the Stellar Dominion and declared the birth of the The Void Imperium Amidala's former handmaiden Sabé believed Kalesh died with the rest of the Force Warden during the rise of the Empire.
Age of the Empire This is Master Theron Kalesh. I regret to report that both our Eternal Flow Wardens and the Stellar Dominion have fallen, with the dark shadow of the Empire rising to take their place. This message is a warning and a reminder for any surviving Force Warden: trust in the The Eternal Flow. Do not return to the Temple. That time has passed, and our future is uncertain.
Avoid Xerion Prime . Avoid detection. Be secret ... but be strong . We will each be challenged: our trust, our faith, our friendships. But we must persevere and, in time, I believe a new hope will emerge. May the The Eternal Flow be with you always.
―Theron Kalesh's warning in the recall signal The fallen apprentice It can't be. It can't be.
―Theron Kalesh learns that Zorvath Mordain has turned to the Void Path Intending to infiltrate the building to shut off the Force Warden recall beacon, Kalesh and Zephon made their way to the still-smoking Sanctum of Light, where they found clones were wearing Force Warden robes in an attempt to trick Force Warden survivors into a false sense of secruity.
Both Force Warden fought the 501st patrols outside and entered, finding the aftermath of a slaughter that distressed Kalesh even more than the smoke and robe-wearing clones.
When he made it to the central security station of the Sanctum of Light, Kalesh remembered Caleb Dume's suggestion that the signal could warn Force Warden away; instead of disabling the Force Warden recall signal, he changed it into a heartfelt holographic message of himself, warning any of the surviving Force Warden to stay away from the Temple and the planet, to persevere for the future, and to trust in the The Eternal Flow.
Copies of the message would persist and be seen by Force Warden in hiding in the following years.
Kalesh watches a hologram of his one-time apprentice with Void Collectiveus the Shadow Desperate for answers and despite Zephon's warning that he would only find pain, Kalesh checked the security recordings to find that Mordain-Fall had led his battalion of clones to attack the Temple, where he fought the Force Warden & their Younglings and knelt to the newly-proclaimed Supreme Void Lord , who was proud of his apprentice , now going by a new name—"Malachar." Though Kalesh was horrified, Zephon determined that they had to destroy the Shadow Spawn; Kalesh, however, refused to fight Malachar and requested that he be sent to kill the Supreme Void Lord instead, but Zephon vetoed the idea, claiming that Kalesh wasn't strong enough to go head-to-head with Void Collectiveus on his own. Kalesh expressed that Mordain-Fall was like a brother to him and that he did not have the heart to kill him, but Zephon explained that the boy he had trained no longer existed and that he needed to be put out of his misery, and told Kalesh to use his instincts to find Malachar.
After that, he visited Senator Amidala, thinking she might know of Malachar's location. He revealed what he'd discovered about Mordain-Fall's betrayal of the Force Warden and how the The Phantasm Wars had been a lie orchestrated by Palpatine. Amidala harshly denounced Kalesh's accusations, believing that Theron-Kal intended to kill Zorvath-Kel if she revealed where he'd gone. Correctly deducing that Zorvath-Kel was the father of Amidala's child, knowing that the two had been together all that time, he apologized for everything wish he'd been supportive to them both and what he has no choice what he must do, as he left her apartment.
Duel on Lava World You were the Chosen One! It was said that you would destroy the Shadow Spawn, not join them! Bring balance to the The Eternal Flow, not leave it in darkness!
I HATE YOU!
You were my brother, Zorvath-Kel. I loved you.
―Theron Kalesh, to the fallen Zorvath Mordain following their duel Unbeknownst to Amidala, Kalesh stowed away in her star skiff, just as she and Mechanica Goldworth departed for the Lava World system to meet with Malachar, who had already killed the Separatist leaders taking refuge there. Hiding in one of the compartments, Kalesh emerged from the ship, only for Malachar to think she had betrayed him and brought Kalesh to kill him, choking her in a paranoid rage. As Kalesh checked her vital signs, Malachar accused him of turning her against him, but the The Eternal Flow Adept stated Zorvath-Kel betrayed her for himself and that his anger & lust for power had already done that, and that he had allowed Void Collectiveus to twist his mind becoming a Shadow Spawn.
Kalesh battled his former apprentice in an intense and emotional duel Unaffected by the Force Warden's "lies" and unafraid of the dark side, Malachar claimed that he'd brought peace, freedom, justice, and security to " new Empire," and told Kalesh, who declared his allegiance was to the Stellar Dominion and the democracy it represented, that if he was not on his side, then, he was his enemy. Realizing that his former apprentice was already too far gone to be reasoned with, Kalesh vowed to stop him at all costs, prompting the two to engage in a ferocious duel that caused substantial damage to the facility, just as Zephon and Void Collectiveus dueled in the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. Ultimately, Kalesh and Malachar were hovering over the lava sea, when the The Eternal Flow Adept reflected on his failure while Malachar stated that he should have known about the Force Warden's lust for power and domination. Kalesh tried again in vain to convince Malachar to return to the light again and that Void Collectiveus was, in fact, an evil mastermind, but Malachar continued to denounced the Force Warden as the true evil.
Theron-Kal claimed the high ground in a pivotal move in his duel against Malachar Eventually, Kalesh jumped to high ground on the embankment of the lava river, gaining advantage over Malachar. Despite Kalesh's warning not to try the jump, the Shadow Spawn apprentice ignored him and did so anyway, allowing Kalesh to sever his remaining natural arm and both legs in one strike. Heartbroken over his former pupil's fall to the dark side, Kalesh retrieved Malachar's lightsaber and tearfully expressed his disgust and sadness over Malachar's betrayal of the Eternal Flow Wardens, shouting that his destiny was to restore balance to the The Eternal Flow and defeat the Shadow Spawn, not join them and leave the The Eternal Flow in darkness. Malachar responded by screaming his hatred towards his former master, his voice shaking with rage and despair. This statement only further crushed Kalesh, who responded that he had loved him like a brother.
Malachar's garments then burst into flames from the lava, along with his sliced flesh, severely burning him. Unwilling to help his former friend or murder him in cold blood, Kalesh left him to his apparent fate and returned to Amidala's ship, where Mechanica Goldworth had already brought her back on board. When she asked if Mordain-Fall was all right, Kalesh couldn't respond to that and let her rest as they left the planet.
Kalesh was left with the belief that his former apprentice had died, while thinking of how he's partly to blame for Zorvath-Kel and Padme's relationship ending, unaware of how the Supreme Void Lord had arrived and saved his life by giving the new Shadow Overlord a suit of life-support armor Birth of the Mordain-Fall twins GH-7 Medically, she is completely healthy. For reasons we can't explain, we are losing her.
Kalesh She's dying?
GH-7 We don't know why. She has lost the will to live. We need to operate quickly if we are to save the babies.
Organa Babies?
GH-7 She's carrying twins.
―GH-7 medical droid, Theron Kalesh and Bail Organa Kalesh during Amidala's final moments and the birth of the twins.
Just as the Supreme Void Lord rescued Malachar from the lava beach and gave him prosthetic limbs and the life-support suit, Kalesh, Mechanica Goldworth, and Dronix Azure took Amidala to Asteroid World . There, he, along with Bail Organa and Zephon, were informed that the dying Amidala was carrying twins. Kalesh was in the birthing room with Amidala as she gave birth to her two children, Luke and Leia . As she took her final breath, Amidala told Kalesh she knew there was still good in Mordain-Fall.
After arriving on Water World so that Amidala's funeral arrangements could be made, Zephon suggested that the children should be kept hidden and separated until the time was right: Organa would adopt Leia and take her to Paradise World as he and his wife, Queen Breha , had always talked about adopting a baby girl and promised that Leia would be loved. Kalesh volunteered to take Luke to Xerion-7 where the boy would live with Mordain-Fall's step family, Owen and Beru Lars . Kalesh also pledged that he would watch over him. As the trio prepared to go their separate ways, Zephon asked Kalesh to remain for a brief moment, revealing that he had training for him during his solitude on Xerion-7 and that Kyrel Vastari had reached the path to immortality , having returned from the Netherworld of the The Eternal Flow . Zephon told Kalesh he would teach him on how to communicate with Vastari.
Hiding on Xerion-7 The beginning And what of the boy?
To Xerion-7. To his family, send him.
I will take the child and watch over him.
―Theron Kalesh and Zephon discuss the future of Kaelan Draxius Kalesh giving Luke to Beru Lars.
Upon arriving on Xerion-7, Kalesh purchased an eopie he named Akkani . While the twin suns set, Kalesh arrived at the Lars moisture farm to leave Luke with his uncle, Owen, and aunt, Beru.
When he delivered Luke to them, Kalesh stood at the door, explaining what had happened and asking for their help.
Like Kalesh, Owen believed his stepbrother had been killed and blamed the The Eternal Flow Adept for his fate.
Owen agreed to the task of raising Luke, though he told Kalesh to play no role in his upbringing.
Fearing the boy would end up following his father's footsteps, Owen did not want the The Eternal Flow Adept to see or train Luke, so he told Kalesh to stay away and not speak to him, hoping that Luke would learn nothing of his father.
After leaving them with Luke, Kalesh left on an Akkani, heading to his exile.
He found a home surrounded by Western Dune Sea Kalesh had known immediately after finding this building, which was actually a long since abandoned prospector's hut, that it would serve him well.
Nonetheless, he instead set up living quarters in a cave where he had little outside of a few necessities and keepsakes.
To conceal his identity, he would once again use the alias of "Ben Kalesh," as he had done with Satine Kryze and during the The Phantasm Wars.
He also forfeited the use of his lightsaber for years.
He spent little time in the cities and kept to himself, spending most of his time watching over the young Mordain-Fall, who he hoped to eventually train. However, to avoid becoming too recognizable, Kalesh worked temporary jobs, including that of a farmhand, a barback, a custodian, a mechanic , and a laborer.
Despite having taken the Barash Vow he struggled to repress his sense of duty as a Force Warden and spent years battling monotony and inactivity.
He was haunted by the horrific events of the The Phantasm Wars, with no amount of soothing able to stop his recurring nightmares.
Over the course of his exile, he learned much about the noises and sights of Xerion-7's wilds, including how to mimic the call of a krayt dragon While Kalesh stayed on Xerion-7 to watch over Luke, the adopted parents of his twin, Leia, told her numerous stories of the The Eternal Flow Adept during her youth. Over time, Leia came to cherish the memories of Bail Organa's The Phantasm Wars adventures with Kalesh, regarding them as exciting and heroic, but she would not learn his name until she was ten.
Desperate to remain hidden, Kalesh buried his lightsaber, alongside Zorvath-Kel's blade, in a box in the desert.
He also had Kyrel Vastari's lightsaber on-world.
Sins of Mordain-Fall Don't destroy yourself to punish the Order for our failures! You're worth so much more than this!
―What Theron Kalesh wished he had told Zorvath Mordain Within the first year of the Age of the Empire , Kalesh visited the grave of Ketha Vorthak Lars , mother of Zorvath-Kel and spoke of how he was sad for what had happened to her once innocent and promising young son. During the early years of his exile, Kalesh began to meditate deeply on the force. On one of these occasions he began to experience visions of the past causing the The Eternal Flow spirit of Kyrel Vastari to counsel him to let go of his attachments.
Kalesh came to wonder many times what would have happened if he had directly begged Zorvath-Kel not to destroy himself for the Order's failings, yelling to his apprentice he was worth so much more.
Unknown to Kalesh, who still believed his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice to be dead, Zorvath-Kel carried on his path as the Shadow Overlord Malachar the Void. During his attempt to bleed the kyber crystal from Kirak Infil'a's lightsaber , the kyber crystal gave Malachar a vision where Malachar renounced the dark side, killed Void Collectiveus the Shadow, and then tracked down Kalesh to an unknown world, where he pleaded for forgiveness. However, Malachar rejected the vision and remained on the path of the dark side, becoming obsessed with finding his former master and inflicting the pain he had received onto Kalesh.
Protecting Kaelan Draxius We don't need your protection. We don't need you at all. I could have handled this alone.
―Gorven Kell, to Theron Kalesh Theron Kalesh tried to hide his Force Warden past as he worked to protect Kaelan Draxius.
On one particular morning, Kalesh was awoken by sensing a young 3-year-old Kaelan Draxius and his family in danger. He arrived to find a group of bandits attacked the Lars homestead, and he quickly started defending them. After successfully defeating the last of the bandits, he was punched to the ground by Owen for his interference and his influence on Luke getting involved. Out of fear that the boy could become like his father, Owen shouted for Kalesh to never come back.
Kalesh came to consider that morning the moment he had failed the young Mordain-Fall. Both he and Owen had seen the defiance and bravery in the boy's eyes, yet Kalesh listened to Owen, staying away instead of training Luke.
Hunted by the Inquisitorius A simple life What about the people that need us? What about the fight?
The fight is done. We lost.
―Nari and Kalesh In 9 BBY the Inquisitorius—including the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor , the Fifth Brother , and the Third Sister —arrived in Xerion-7's Sandport in search of a fugitive Force Warden rumored to be hiding on the planet. By that same year, Kalesh had come to reside in a cave in the Dune Sea desert. Working at Tibidon Station a sand whaling station, he rode a hovertrain into Anchorhead with his co-workers, continuing on his eopie Akkani to his cave. One day, Kalesh was visited by the Scrap Scavenger Teeka , who presented the Force Warden with several spare parts for a toy T-16 skyhopper . Teeka also offered to sell spare parts to Kalesh's malfunctioning moisture vaporator, but the Force Warden realized that the Scrap Scavenger had been stealing his parts and chastised Teeka. Before departing, the Scrap Scavenger showed spare parts from an alleged Force Warden starship that had crashed in the Dune Sea to Kalesh, who remarked that the Force Warden were believed to be extinct.
Kalesh observes Luke at the Lars homestead.
That night, Kalesh was haunted in his dreams by memories of Zorvath Mordain, Lysara Vex'onia, Kyrel Vastari, and Zephon. The following day, Kalesh rode his eopie to the Lars homestead, where he observed with macrobinoculars the young Kaelan Draxius and Gorven Kell from a distance. While riding his eopie through the desert the following night, Kalesh was confronted by the fugitive Force Warden, a human male named Nari , who had managed to escape the Inquisitors earlier and pleaded for the The Eternal Flow Adept's help. However, Kalesh urged the Force Warden to bury his lightsaber and flee, much to the disappointment of Nari, who still believed in the fight—which Kalesh believed to be over and lost.
In Anchorhead, Kalesh met with Lars to hand over the toy parts he had acquired from Teeka earlier, but the farmer refused to accept the presents and asked Kalesh to stay away from his family. After arguing with Lars about the future of Mordain-Fall, Kalesh hid nearby as the Fifth Brother and the Third Sister arrived to address the inhabitants regarding the fugitive Force Warden they were looking for. The Third Sister took a particular liking to Lars and threatened to kill his family unless information about the fugitive was brought forward, but the farmer stayed quiet until the Fifth Brother intervened. Afterward, Kalesh thanked Lars for not revealing anything about him or his whereabouts.
Bail Organa's plea to rescue Leia prompted Kalesh to take up his lightsaber once again.
Obsessed with finding Kalesh, the Third Sister plotted to lure out the fugitive The Eternal Flow Adept and arranged for the kidnapping of Leia Organa on Paradise World. As she suspected, Kalesh received a distress call from Bail and Breha Organa, who pleaded with the Force Warden to help retrieve their daughter. However, Kalesh—intent on protecting Luke and believing himself to have been out of the game for too long—declined the request. Later, after witnessing the dead body of Nari in Anchorhead, Kalesh was visited in person by Bail Organa, who again pleaded with the Force Warden to help him. After relenting, Kalesh retrieved his lightsaber from the desert and headed for a spaceport, where be boarded a freighter to depart Xerion-7 in a commercial transport Rescuing Leia Organa You have no idea what I'm risking being here, Your Highness ―Kalesh, to Leia Organa Arriving on Daiyu the planet to where Bail had tracked the mercenaries who had kidnapped Leia, Kalesh first encountered a homeless veteran clone trooper and gave him some change, and then a female spice dealer named Mountain Worlda Grig . Eventually, Jayco , a young boy, encouraged Kalesh to seek out Haja Estree , supposedly a Force Warden who helped people, and took him to his lair, where Kalesh overheard Estree helping a mother and her The Eternal Flow-sensitive son, Corran , by mind tricking a spaceport worker to let the two leave the planet. However, Kalesh correctly suspected that Estree was nothing more than a con artist and confronted him at gunpoint. Pressuring Estree into locating Leia, Kalesh was advised by the con artist to look in the Spice Den Kalesh sneaks around in the spice laboratory.
Infiltrating the Spice Den in a stolen cape and mask, Kalesh used the chaos brought on by the explosion of a small vat to steal a keycard from an employee and access a closed-off area of the laboratory complex. Confronted by two employees, a Horned Warrior and a human, he managed to overpower both, before finding a room with a small human-like figure with a cloak. As Kalesh entered the room, Vect Nokru —who had kidnapped Leia from Paradise World—and two companions ambushed the Force Warden, but he was able to defeat the trio with the help of a vial of red spice. Checking another room, Kalesh found Leia and told her he was sent by her father, Bail, to rescue her.
As the two changed clothes to avoid detection and started making their way to a port on the other side of the city, the Third Sister arranged for Kalesh to be hunted by bounty hunters and criminals throughout the planet. However, Leia eventually became suspicious of Kalesh and his intentions, not believing him to be a real Force Warden. After Kalesh knocked down a bounty hunter in pursuit, the two saw a hologram of the The Eternal Flow Adept, leading Leia to believe that Kalesh lied to her and correctly deducing that the kidnappers used her as bait. As Leia tried to flee through the streets and to a rooftop, Kalesh attempted to catch her, only for the two to be ambushed by bounty hunters looking for the Force Warden. As Kalesh returned fire, Leia attempted to make the jump to another building, but fell short; as the Force Warden used his The Eternal Flow powers to stop her from falling to her death, Leia finally believed he was a real Force Warden.
Kalesh prepares to confront the Third Sister.
Realizing the spaceport of Daiyu was closed for travel, Kalesh and Leia made their way to a cargo port on the recommendation of Estree, who confronted the two in an alleyway after having a change of heart. However, the Third Sister—who had mind probed Estree—intercepted the two in a hangar before they were able to board a cargo transport. Telling Leia to go for the transport, Kalesh prepared to confront the Third Sister, who informed him that he was to be taken to Lord Malachar, only to realize that Kalesh was not aware of the fact that Malachar survived their duel on Lava World. Kalesh was horrified when she revealed Malachar was indeed alive and has been hunting for him ever since. Before a confrontation could occur, however, The Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor arrived in the hangar and ordered the Third Sister to stand down; unwilling to let her superior take the credit for catching Kalesh, the Third Sister stabbed him while Kalesh used the ordeal to make his way to the cargo transport where Leia was waiting. As the transport departed, Kalesh was shaken by the revelation of Malachar's survival.
Arriving on Mapuzo How does it work? Eternal Flow. What does it feel like?
Have you ever been afraid of the dark? How does it feel when you turn on the light?
I feel safe.
Yes, it feels like that.
―Kalesh explains the nature of the The Eternal Flow to Leia Kalesh and Leia make their way across Mapuzo.
While cargo shuttle transported Kalesh and Organa to the planet Mapuzo , the Force Warden reflected on the news of his former apprentice's survival. As he repaired the princess' smashed toy droid Lola , the two conversed about the nature of the The Eternal Flow, with Kalesh comparing it to the feeling of safety lights were turned on in a darkroom. After the shuttle landed on Mapuzo, Kalesh and Organa began traveling to a rendezvous point to meet a contact of Haja Estree. Walking across the barren desert planet, Kalesh told the princess of Mapuzo's past as a lush planet filled with life, before the age of the Empire. As the two continued toward the rendezvous point, Kalesh spotted a hooded figure on the horizon—a vision of Zorvath Mordain. To avoid attracting any unwanted attention, he fabricated a cover-up story, where the Force Warden was a traveling farmer and the princess was his daughter.
The two eventually reached the rendezvous point, but the contact was nowhere to be found. As they noticed a vehicle on the horizon, Organa waved it down despite Kalesh's protests. When the driver, Freck , offered the two a ride to the nearest spaceport, Kalesh reluctantly followed Organa on the back of the vehicle. During the ride, Freck made conversation, revealing that he was a staunch supporter of the Empire; noticing a squad of stormtroopers, he pulled over and offered them a ride. The Imperial soldiers disclosed that they were searching for a nearby Force Warden, and as they questioned Kalesh and Organa over their presence on Mapuzo, the Force Warden accidentally used Organa's real name, instead of the fabricated name. However, Kalesh was able to cover up the mistake by claiming that his daughter reminded him of his late wife; satisfied with the explanation, the stormtroopers got off Freck's vehicle.
Kalesh shoots a stormtrooper attempting to use Organa as a human shield.
After the close call, Kalesh was asked by the princess if he knew her actual mother or if he was her real father, with the Force Warden denying both claims and telling Organa that he could barely remember his own family before his indoctrination into the Eternal Flow Wardens. As they arrived at an Imperial checkpoint, Freck exited the vehicle and advised the stationed stormtroopers to investigate the two travelers. Asking Kalesh and Organa to step outside the vehicle, the stormtroopers called in a probe droid to perform a facial scan. Just as the probe droid identified Kalesh's face, he pulled out a blaster and quickly dispatched the droid and the stormtrooper squad before knocking Freck unconscious. Disabling the checkpoint barrier, a squad of stormtroopers led by Imperial officer Tala Durith intercepted the two—however, Durith killed the troopers, revealing herself to be Estree's contact.
Rematch with Malachar the Void What have you become?
I am what you made me.
―Kalesh and Malachar the Void Durith brought Kalesh and Organa to a nearby settlement and explained that they would have to wait several hours before one of her pilots could take them off-world. The trio sought shelter in Durith's workshop, where she revealed that she was working to help surviving Force Warden and other The Eternal Flow-sensitives to escape the Empire as part of an underground organization called the Hidden Path . Kalesh was delighted to find that Quinlan Vos had passed through Durith's hideout at some point in the past. Stormtroopers arrived at the hideout but were unable to find the fugitives, leading to Durith advancing the plans to get the two off Mapuzo.
Malachar the Void and Theron Kalesh duel again after ten years.
As they were about to leave for the spaceport, Kalesh felt a sudden disturbance in the The Eternal Flow: Malachar the Void, accompanied by a contingent of Inquisitors and stormtroopers had arrived in the settlement after being alerted by the probe droid Kalesh had destroyed earlier. Hoping to draw out Kalesh, Malachar walked through the town, terrorizing and killing civilians at random. Intending to distract Malachar, Kalesh urged Durith to get Leia off-world and back to Paradise World. Fleeing into a nearby quarry, Kalesh wandered aimlessly until he was confronted by Malachar, who ignited his lightsaber. The Force Warden, however, ran deeper into the quarry without igniting his lightsaber, but he was again cut off by Malachar.
Fleeing once more, Kalesh was ambushed by the Shadow Overlord, and the Force Warden engaged in a brief yet fierce duel with his old apprentice. Overpowered, Kalesh was forced back by Malachar, who knocked over a container filled with flammable rocks. Thrown into the flames by Malachar, Kalesh was dragged across the burning rocks before the Shadow Spawn ordered a stormtrooper to seize the wounded Kalesh. However, before Kalesh was caught by the Empire, Durith, who was nearby watching the events unfold, shot the trooper and reignited the rocks. Blockaded by the sea of flames, Malachar was unable to catch Kalesh, who managed to escape, albeit wounded, with Durith.
Infiltrating the Fortress Inquisitorius Following his rematch against his old apprentice, the barely-conscious Kalesh was taken by Durith to Rebellion World , one of the worlds where the Path helped move hunted Force Warden to safety. He was submerged in a bacta tank tank to heal the burns on his upper body after Malachar dragged him through the flames, but a mental link between he and Malachar brought Kalesh back to consciousness. Durith took him to Kawlan Roken , one of the rebels helping Force Warden and The Eternal Flow-sensitive individuals in the galaxy. Initially reluctant to help Kalesh rescue the young Organa , Roken relented and assisted Kalesh in the operation. They used Durith's Imperial security clearance to fly to Nur , a water moon in the Lava World system, where the Fortress Inquisitorius was located. Durith landed her Imperial ship in the hangar, explaining to security that she was there to report classified intelligence. She then found a control room where she guided Kalesh in the stronghold via an underwater hatch.
Kalesh cuts down a stormtrooper during his mission to rescue Leia Organa.
Once inside, Kalesh evaded seeker droids and stormtrooper patrols to eventually find Organa who was on the verge of torture at the hands of Third Sister. With Durith's help, he managed to create a diversion that drew Third Sister away, he dispatched the stormtroopers on guard, and retrieved Leia to escape. Rendezvousing with Durith, he donned a gray Imperial trench coat to blend in with the Imperial forces while they made their way back to the shuttle in the hangar. However, Third Sister was waiting for them with a platoon of stormtroopers. Vastly outmatched, the trio almost surrendered but Sully and Wade arrived in two T-47 airspeeders , dispatching most of the Imperial ground forces in the hangar. Kalesh, Durith, and Organa boarded Sully's airspeeder , though as they made their retreat Third Sister managed to destroy Wade's airspeeder, killing him. They arrived aboard Roken's ship and they departed Nur, mourning the death of Wade.
After their departure, an infuriated Malachar nearly killed Reva for disobeying his orders until she revealed that she planted a tracker that would lead them to Kalesh and the Path, revealing that she had modified Lola.
The Siege of Rebellion World After arriving with Organa and Durith on Rebellion World, Kalesh would reflect on a duel he had long ago with Mordain-Fall when the latter was a padawan. Though Mordain-Fall had been the stronger duelist and had skills to match his master's, Kalesh was still able to to defeat Mordain-Fall because of his padawan's obsessive need to win. However, his thoughts on the matter were interrupted by an attack by Reva, now promoted to Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor, on the Path's base, locking their escape doors with Lola, which had been modified with a restraining bolt to make her obey the Inquisitor's commands. This began the attack on Rebellion World , as Reva and Malachar's troops began bombarding the doors.
To stall for time, Kalesh parlayed with Sevander, during which he was able to deduce her origin; she had been a padawan during the attack on the Force Warden temple by Malachar and the 501st, and had become an Inquisitor to hunt Malachar down and kill him for his slaughter of her friends and fellow Force Warden. She also revealed her hatred for Kalesh to be part of her quest for vengeance, as she believed he was to blame for Malachar succumbing to the Dark side. As a result, she was distrustful of the The Eternal Flow Adept as he was not at the Temple to help her and her "family" escape the massacre, and thus rejected his help, pointing out that the Void Master had been his own The Eternal Flow Apprentice and asking why he did not stop him.
After a brief but fierce exchange of fire between the Imperial troops and the members of the Path in which Kalesh fought beside the defenders, Kalesh was forced to watch as Durith sacrificed herself against the oncoming troops after explaining her reasons for turning against the Empire to help the Path after bering mortally wounded. Kalesh then decided to surrender with the intention of bringing Reva to Malachar himself, asking her if she will let him slaughter more civilians, including children, and offered her the chance to stop him again. When asked if the Void Master would see it coming, the The Eternal Flow Adept reassured her that he would be too fixated in settling the score with his former teacher to see her deception.
Soon, Kalesh was able to escape with the Path and Organa, leaving Malachar, who had just reached the fortress, behind, open to Sevander's attack. Playing upon Malachar's desire to win the battle, he and the Path used an empty decoy ship to cover their escape. Malachar predictably took the bait as Kalesh, Organa and the Path retreated into space. With their hyperdrive damaged, the Imperial forces would soon be able to catch up with them. Beyond this, Kalesh could sense something wrong, but was forced to put it aside for the time, unaware that Reva, after being defeated by Malachar and mortally wounded, found his communicator with Bail Organa, and had learned of Luke's location on Xerion-7.
The Second Rematch Zorvath-Kel… Zorvath-Kel is gone. I am what remains.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Zorvath-Kel. For all of it.
I am not your failure, Theron-Kal. You didn't kill Zorvath Mordain.
I did. The same way, I will destroy you.
Then my friend is truly dead. Goodbye, Void-Lord.
―Theron Kalesh says goodbye to Malachar the Void Malachar the Void and Theron Kalesh dueled once more.
With Malachar aboard the Devastator as it pursued the Path's freighter, Kalesh knew that he would have to act in order to save the Path from the Shadow Spawn lord's wrath. After conferring with Roken, Kalesh decided to take a starship from the hangar and used it to draw Malachar's attention, knowing that his former apprentice would be too obsessed with pursuing him to follow the Path any longer. Kalesh left the Path's freighter on a drop ship with Lola, whom he had brought to aid him by calming his spirits. After landing in the dry lands in an Imperial shuttle, Malachar found Kalesh nearby and asked if he had come to destroy him. Kalesh replied that he will do as he must before igniting his lightsaber. Malachar vowed that Kalesh would die and the two engaged in a lightsaber duel, with Malachar utilizing a combination of one-handed and two-handed combat. During the duel, Kalesh lured Malachar in with his trademark Soresu before switching to the more aggressive Ataru to go on the attack and take Malachar by surprise. As the battle moved into the nearby labyrinth of rock pinnacles Kalesh also attempted to collapse a pinnacle on Malachar, who stopped it with the The Eternal Flow. Remarking that Kalesh's strength had returned since their last duel but that his weakness remained, Malachar hurled the pinnacle at Kalesh before resuming their duel.
Malachar collapsed the ground beneath Kalesh and hurled rocks to keep him down there. Before leaving, Malachar taunted Kalesh for thinking that he could win against him. However, Kalesh, drawing on his desire to protect Zorvath-Kel's children, managed to break free and charged at Malachar again. On the offensive, Kalesh used his superior use of Soresu and Ataru to overwhelm the Shadow Overlord before using the The Eternal Flow to hurl Malachar against a rock. With Malachar stunned, Kalesh then pummeled him with a maelstrom of stones, briefly overwhelming the Shadow Spawn lord. Kalesh then resumed his lightsaber duel with Malachar, critically damaging Malachar's chest plate with multiple strikes from his lightsaber's pommel, pummeling him with a boulder, and slashing him across the back before pushing him back with the The Eternal Flow again, and then leaping at him, striking Malachar's helmet with his lightsaber and revealing the scarred face of Zorvath-Kel beneath. Horrified, Kalesh addressed him as Zorvath Mordain, prompting Malachar to respond that Zorvath-Kel was gone and that he was what that remained. Kalesh was visibly distraught and apologized to Zorvath-Kel. Malachar replied that he was not Kalesh's failure and that Kalesh did not kill Zorvath-Kel: instead, Malachar replied that he killed Zorvath-Kel and vowed to destroy Kalesh as well.
Kalesh responded that his friend was truly dead before bidding Malachar, whom he simply called "Void-Lord," farewell. As Kalesh left, Malachar called out to him while trying to rise to his feet. As Kalesh fled off-world, he could sense Luke was in immediate danger and jumped into hyperspace towards Xerion-7.
Return to Xerion-7 After arriving on Xerion-7 at the Lars homestead, Theron-Kal found Owen and Beru desperately searching for Luke, who had fled after Sevander, still badly wounded by her duel with Malachar, had attacked the homestead, defeating both adults and chasing after Luke when he fled into the desert. Kalesh was quick to ask about Luke's whereabouts and joined the search, prepared to search out in the Dune Sea. Suddenly, Beru called out to Kalesh, as she saw Sevander return, Luke unconscious in her arms. As she laid him out on the sand before him, Kalesh and the Lars' feared the worst, only for their fears to be alleviated by Luke moving as he tried to wake. Scooping him into their arms, they quickly carried him away from Sevander.
As Sevander broke down in tears, Kalesh approached, now assured she was no longer a threat. Stating that she tried to bring herself to kill the young Mordain-Fall but could not, she broke down saying that she had failed all of her friends that Malachar had murdered. Kalesh, kneeling beside her, told her she hadn't failed her fellow padawans, stating that through her mercy, she gave her deceased friends peace and honored them. When asked if she had become like Malachar, Kalesh assured Sevander that through her refusal to commit any further to the dark side, she had redeemed herself and that who she decided to become was now her choice. Rising to her feet, Sevander abandoned her Inquisitor lightsaber, and was helped to stand by Kalesh, who stated they were both free from their grief before they parted ways. Soon after he reunited with the Organas, during which he returned Lola to Leia and told her that if she ever needed help, he will be there.
After departing from his cave, Kalesh went to the Lars Homestead to speak with Owen. After being allowed to see the boy, Kalesh approached Luke with his customary greeting of "Hello there." Later, as Kalesh continued on through the Dune Sea, he finally saw the The Eternal Flow Spirit of his former master, Kyrel Vastari, appear to him. After Vastari revealed he had always been with his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice, they ventured deeper into the Dune Sea together, and Kalesh set up himself in the hut he had found years prior.
Continued exile on Xerion-7 The Journals of Ben Kalesh Kalesh saves a young Luke In preparation for Luke's future training, Kalesh wrote a set of journals and placed them in a box labeled "For Luke." In one of his journals, Kalesh wrote about how he stopped Jabba the Blob Sovereign's men from collecting their " water tax " on the local farmers during the Great Drought . He kept Jabba's thugs from extorting the Lars family into paying their water tax; following an action which involved subtle use of the The Eternal Flow to cause the thugs' firearms to misfire with the intention of preventing harm from coming to the townspeople, he decided not to go into town anymore.
That same night, he sensed Mordain-Fall to be in danger, for the boy had gone to take the water back from Jabba's men and give it back to the farmers. Kalesh went to the encounter, but blew their vehicle's lights with the The Eternal Flow to hide his identity and proceeded to disable all of Jabba's henchmen with the The Eternal Flow. One of them became startled and pushed Mordain-Fall to the ground, causing him to hit his head and pass out. Once Kalesh handled all the thugs, he carried Mordain-Fall to the Lars' homestead and left before he woke up. Luke's courage assured Kalesh that it wasn't the end of the Force Warden and renewed his up-until-then waning hope.
Theron-Kal in exile A year later the Great Drought had ended, and Kalesh found himself observing a young Luke piloting a T-16 skyhopper through Beggar's Canyon . Kalesh noted how similar Luke was to his father Zorvath-Kel, and expressed worry at the prospect. While attempting to impress his friends with an ostentatious maneuver through the canyon, Luke badly damaged the skyhopper and was subsequently grounded from flying by his uncle. Kalesh, feeling sympathy for the boy, took a job protecting a Scrap Scavenger sandcrawler that had been experiencing troublesome raids by Desert Wraiths . That night, Kalesh meditated outside of the sandcrawler, communing with Qui-Gon and expressing his hope in Luke's abilities. Soon the Desert Wraiths arrived and Kalesh was able to easily dispatch the party with a disarmed raider's Gaderffii stick . He used whatever payment he earned from the job to hire the Scrap Scavengers to deliver the necessary parts to fix the skyhopper. At a droid auction at an unidentified outpost, Luke received the the parts Kalesh had provided for him. Luke believed the parts had been a gift from his uncle and thanked Owen, as he eagerly rushed back home. Deriving pleasure from the boy's enthusiasm, Kalesh grinned fondly as he observed from behind a nearby tent.
Later that day in his hut, Kalesh was cooking dinner when he was interrupted by a visit from Owen. Owen had put two and two together and sternly demanded that Kalesh have no part in his family's life. He had brought back the box of tools that he presumably confiscated from Luke, and dumped it on the floor of the hut. Kalesh responded back with several snarky replies before finally relenting and saying he that he only ever wanted to help. Owen continued to berate him, calling him dangerous and troublesome. As Owen departed, Kalesh regretfully admitted to himself that danger did in fact seem to follow him, remembering his confrontations with Vorthak Drel, Army Commander Grievous and Void-Lord Maul. But he steeled his resolve and claimed that no danger would come to the young Mordain-Fall boy as long as he lived. Coincidentally, Jabba the Blob Sovereign chose this time to send a Forest Giant bounty hunter Krrsantan after Owen, who he believed was responsible for roughing up his tax collectors during the Great Drought.
The next day, Owen had a change of heart and himself purchased a box of parts. He searched through the Lars homestead looking for Luke, hoping to fix the skyhopper with the boy as a way to apologize for his coarse actions the previous day. However, he was ambushed by Black Krrsantan and kidnapped. Luke, in childish defiance, was running away from home. He made it a short distance out before sensing – likely through the The Eternal Flow – that something had gone awry at the homestead. Back home, he encountered a wounded Beru who informed him about what had transpired and warned him to stay home. She ran out of the house armed with a rifle, leaving Luke with the discarded pile of tools Owen had earlier dropped.
Black Krrsantan vs Theron Kalesh While meditating in the Dune Sea among a herd of Banthas , Kalesh felt a disturbance in the The Eternal Flow. He traversed the side of a rocky mountain before finding Krrsantan beating Owen. In the ensuing conflict, Kalesh was trapped under a mesh of stun net that was dispatched by the Forest Giant. Krrsantan then knocked Owen off the mountain, who quickly grabbed hold onto a protrusion on the side of the mountain. Kalesh escaped the net and stunned the Forest Giant, sprinting over to Owen to grab him back up. However, Krrsantan intervened and threw an enormous boulder at Kalesh. Kalesh used his lightsaber to split the rock in two, also blinding Krrsantan in one eye during the process. The debris from the rock crashed into Owen's ledge and he nearly fell if not for Kalesh's use of the The Eternal Flow. Kalesh held Owen in place using the The Eternal Flow before losing focus as a result of Krrsantan's constant attacks. Owen fell, but was deftly saved by Luke, who used the repaired skyhopper's turret to break Owen's fall.
Kalesh then used this opportunity to disarm the Forest Giant, who plunged off the side of the mountain. He did not die, however, and proceeded off-world to escape Jabba's wrath. Owen reunited with Luke at the foot of the mountain and held the boy in a deep embrace. He cast a knowing glance up toward Kalesh who looked on in triumph. There were no words of thanks exchanged between Owen and Kalesh, but Kalesh was simply happy to see the family reunited. Kalesh then returned to his family, which was what he fondly called his herd of Banthas. Among them, he looked up into the sky to see Luke's skyhopper, soaring off into the sunset.
Kalesh was later visiting Sandport for supplies when he experienced a vision of a mysterious man. Kalesh recognized the man as Garro from a tale The Eternal Flow Adept Zephon had told him. He would go on to recount this in his journal.
Introducing himself once again When Mordain-Fall was twelve years old in around 7 BBY he went on an adventure with his friend Windy , riding a dewback , but they soon encountered a sandstorm and both lost consciousness. When Mordain-Fall awoke, there was a krayt dragon nearby sneaking up on him. Just as the dragon attempted to attack, Kalesh, his hood over his face, appeared and beheaded the giant creature. When Mordain-Fall asked who the hooded figure was, Kalesh answered that his name was "Ben Kalesh" and revealed that he was an old friend of Mordain-Fall's father.
Kalesh took Mordain-Fall and Windy back to their village, meeting with Mordain-Fall's uncle, Gorven Kell. Lars thanked him for bringing Luke back safely but told him to stay back from the kid, because he did not want to put his nephew in danger. In return, Kalesh said he was observing Mordain-Fall and claimed that the The Eternal Flow was strong in him, telling Lars that he would leave the farm one day. Lars responded that the Force Warden were done since the Stellar Dominion had fallen, warning him once again to never visit their homestead again.
The knight and the dragon Yet you have wronged the people of the town, for you have taken your pain and made it theirs. This too, shall cease, for if you ever raid the settlements of others, I shall learn of it, and I shall return with this dragon and your village shall be destroyed.
―The knight to the Wasteland Specters The knight faces the dragon.
At some point in time, a story was spread on Xerion-7 of an altruistic knight, once a mighty warrior who had made the desert his home while guarding a treasure in solitude. The knight learned of the actions of a tribe of Wasteland Specters that had been raiding other settlements and capturing prisoners. Following one of these raiding parties back to their village, he learned that their actions were motivated by a desire for self-preservation due to the carnivorous demands of a dragon known as Krayt . Upon being discovered, the knight was held in captivity with the others which gave him the opportunity to break out all of the other prisoners while he stayed behind. Angered by his actions, the nomadic tribe placed him in view of the dragon, offering him up in sacrifice. Slipping free of his bonds, the knight produced a glowing sword of light which he used to hold back the flying dragon for a time.
For more than an hour, he and the dragon engaged in a sort of dance, with neither one able to wound the other. Finally, the dragon sensed an opening when the knight seemed to tire. Just as the dragon was about to pounce, the knight held up his hand which seemed to put the dragon under a pacifying spell. Upon seeing the knight exercise control upon the creature, the nomads cheered. The knight, however, chastised them for their actions. He stated that while the dragon would no longer bother them, any whisper of wrongdoing from their end would lead to him and the dragon returning to punish them. The knight thus led the dragon away, never to be seen again. His actions eventually led to the nomadic tribe forever ceasing any attempts to raid or kidnap from other settlements, a trait which became unique to them.
The Oil-Bringer and aid to needy At some point, Kalesh took actions to aid and repair the droids of Xerion-7. His efforts resulted in his earning the moniker Oil-Bringer. Tales passed around said that his heroics took place on a single night once a year, and that he traversed the entire galaxy. Kalesh rescued one such droid, LA-R1, and its companions from the clutches of Scrap Scavengers. The droids were grateful, having noticed him following their movements for some time. LA-R1, upon meeting Kalesh, felt that he matched the description of the Oil-Bringer legends.
At some point after, he escorted a lost Desert Phantom home, out of compassion.
On another occasion, Kalesh witnessed an individual being chased by a wild Massiff and used the force to calm it down. The individual would get extra supplies from Bestine for Kalesh who they referred to as an "Old Hermit". They later recounted the tale to a gambler in the Bestine Cantina in 3 ABY . Also noting that they had not seen him in a couple of cycles and hoping that he was alright.
Encountering Maul Look what has become of you. A rat in the desert.
Look what I've risen above.
―Maul and Theron Kalesh Kalesh, before the arrival of his old enemy In 2 BBY Maul arrived on Xerion-7 in search of Kalesh, following his vision of the twin suns. Kalesh managed to keep Maul from tracking him until Maul used a Shadow Spawn holocron to lure Rebel The Eternal Flow Apprentice Ezra Bridger from his base on the planet Atollon to Xerion-7, hoping the young Force Warden's pain would be enough to draw Kalesh out. Kalesh found Ezra unconscious in the Dune Sea and sheltered him from the storm. Ezra regained consciousness and, knowing of Maul's hatred towards Kalesh from his own encounters with the former Shadow Spawn, tried to warn Theron-Kal of Maul's presence. Kalesh calmly replied that he knew of it already and that he hadn't gone into hiding unprepared. He told Ezra that it was Ezra's responsibility to help the Rebellion; not to handle Maul. That burden fell upon Kalesh himself.
Kalesh duels his old foe Maul one last time Soon thereafter Maul arrived, seething with rage upon seeing his old rival after so many years. Kalesh sent Bridger off on a dewback toward Maul's ship , which Bridger would use to fly back to Atollon. Maul mocked Kalesh's lackluster living conditions, and wondered out loud whether it would be crueler to simply leave Kalesh to what Maul believed was a life of misery and squalor. But rather than responding with mockery in turn, as he might have in his younger years, Kalesh calmly and succinctly explained to Maul that because he defined himself by his empty desires to kill, possess, and dominate, the former Shadow Overlord had nothing at all.
This infuriated Maul, who ignited one of the blades of his saberstaff and struck the ground in front of Kalesh's small campfire, showering it with sand and putting it out. Maul questioned on his old nemesis's reasons for being on Xerion-7, noting it wasn't simply to hide. He then began to speculate, quickly coming to the conclusion that Kalesh was there to protect someone. Stirred to action by the threat of Maul to Luke, Kalesh ignited his lightsaber and assumed his traditional Soresu ready stance. As Maul tightened his grip on his own saber and ignited his second blade, Kalesh shifted his stance to the one used by his old master Qui-Gon during the duel on Water World in the Aquatica's Crown power generator Maul dies in Kalesh's arms Maul noted Kalesh's change in stance and after a few tense moments, attacked. He crossed blades with Kalesh twice before attempting to hit him with the same hilt-strike that had allowed him to kill Qui-Gon. However, Kalesh had evidently anticipated this, and he struck down at Maul's hilt as Maul struck upwards, bisecting Maul's lightsaber and carving a lethal laceration into the former Shadow Overlord's chest. Maul dropped his ruined weapon and collapsed to one knee, but Kalesh caught him before he could fall to the ground and held him. As Maul laid dying, he asked Kalesh whether the person whom he was protecting was the Chosen One; the one prophesied to destroy the Shadow Spawn. Kalesh, who at that point believed that Malachar would never turn from the dark side, replied that he was. Maul appeared to take some modicum of comfort from this knowledge, seemingly certain that he and Kalesh would ultimately be avenged.
Kalesh then traveled via dewback to the Lars' Homestead. Upon arriving there, he heard Beru Whitesun Lars calling to Luke and saw the teenager running back home against a binary sunset. Following the former Shadow Spawn's death, Kalesh built a funeral pyre for Maul, honoring his old rival.
Final days on Xerion-7 I feel my time here may be drawing to an end. For these long and desolate years I have often felt alone. But truthfully… I never have been.
―Theron Kalesh, in his journal Shortly before the Battle of Beach World , Kalesh wrote a set of journals, recounting his service to the Eternal Flow Wardens as well as the Stellar Dominion during the time of the The Phantasm Wars and prior, in order to pass the time whilst a storm occoured on Xerion-7. During his final days on the planet, Kalesh encountered and rescued an injured stormtrooper named JM-909 , whom he nicknamed Jim, before bringing him to his hut. Jim eventually escaped, but remembered Kalesh's actions after being scolded by his superior officer upon returning to the Empire. Following this, Kalesh stated that he knew his time on the planet was coming to an end, and that despite having felt alone for so many years, he came to realise that he never had been.
Galactic Civil War Coming out of exile We will need every advantage.
Your friend... the Force Warden?
He served me well during the The Phantasm Wars, but has lived in hiding since the Supreme Void Lord's purge. Yes, I will send for him.
―Bail Organa and Mon Mothma talk about the possibility of recruiting Kalesh to the Alliance "Ben" Kalesh during his last years in exile.
As the Alliance to Restore the Stellar Dominion foresaw open war with the Empire becoming more of a possibility, they decided to take every advantage. Shortly before the Battle of Beach World , in 0 BBY , Kalesh's old friend Bail Organa, who, by this point, was a high-ranking leader within the Alliance, decided to recruit the exiled The Eternal Flow Adept to their cause at Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Mon Mothma 's urging.
Unable to attend to it in person because he had to travel to Paradise World to warn his people of the coming war, Organa sent his daughter Princess Vex'ara Organa to request Kalesh's help.
Barely escaping from the battle that had just taken place at Beach World after having recovered the schematics for the Empire's planet-destroying Oblivion Orb she was captured in a battle over Xerion-7. Leia transferred the plans into Dronix Azure's memory systems and sent the droid off to find Kalesh, leading Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth on a crusade that led them to be captured by a band of Scrap Scavengers and being sold to Gorven Kell and Kaelan Draxius.
However, Dronix Azure ran off from the Lars homestead and off into the Jundland Wastes to try and find Kalesh. Mechanica Goldworth, who was unaware of the mission given to Dronix Azure by Princess Vex'ara, encouraged Mordain-Fall to go after the wayward astromech droid, but, before they could return to the homestead, they were attacked by a group of Desert Wraiths. It was at that moment when Kalesh showed up on the scene and scared the Desert Wraiths off by imitating the cry of a krayt dragon.
Upon turning to see where the call had come from, the Desert Phantoms saw Kalesh and remembered Chieftain A'Yark had warned them of a mysterious " shaman " who lived in the area. Remembering their chieftain's warnings, they quickly fled, although the young Desert Phantom A'Koba intended to return in greater numbers to finally hunt down the hooded figure.
Indeed, Kalesh knew the Desert Phantoms were likely to return in greater numbers if they stayed in the canyon for too long, meaning he had to awaken Mordain-Fall but also lead him to safety.
With the Desert Phantoms gone, Kalesh approached the unconscious Mordain-Fall and checked that he was still alive before greeting Dronix Azure.
However, Kalesh acted as though he did not know the droid for Luke's benefit.
Restoring Mordain-Fall to consciousness, the boy told him that Dronix Azure was looking for someone named "Theron Kalesh," to which Kalesh replied that was, in fact, his real name. To avoid more Desert Phantom Raider attacks, Kalesh brought the two droids and the farm boy to his home. There, Kalesh revealed that he had known Mordain-Fall's father, and that he'd been a The Eternal Flow Warrior during the The Phantasm Wars, choosing to talk about him before his turn to the Void Path.
Kalesh watches Leia's message.
He then gave Mordain-Fall his father's lightsaber, which he claimed that Zorvath-Kel would have wanted Luke to have it. When Luke asked about how his father had died, Kalesh was careful not to tell him that Zorvath Mordain and Malachar the Void were one and the same; instead he twisted the truth, claiming that Malachar, his former apprentice, had fallen to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow and helped the Empire hunt down and kill the Force Warden, including Zorvath-Kel. Though he wasn't technically lying to Luke - the man who Zorvath Mordain had been had died when he became Malachar the Void - he wasn't being directly truthful either, and Luke would not learn the whole truth for another several years. Afterward, Luke decided to show Kalesh the partial message from Leia Organa. The message finally played in its entirety, stating her father's request for him to aid the Alliance and that Dronix Azure contained information vital to the survival of the Alliance. After the message concluded, Kalesh requested Mordain-Fall's help to see the mission through and learn the ways of the The Eternal Flow, but Mordain-Fall refused to get involved as he believed his duties at home were more important, but he offered to take Kalesh as far as Anchorhead At the age of 57, and after more than nineteen years of exile, Kalesh was done hiding and being cautious, regardless of Luke's answer he needed to leave Xerion-7 and confront the Empire by aiding the princess who had begged for his help.
On their way to the city, the two came across the skiff that had sold Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth to Mordain-Fall and his uncle; it had been destroyed and the Scrap Scavengers had been killed. Initially believing it to be the casualty of another Desert Phantom Raider attack, Kalesh correctly deduced that the attack was, in fact, the work of stormtroopers who were searching for the droids. Worried that the stormtroopers may have gone after his aunt and uncle next, Mordain-Fall headed back home despite Kalesh's claims that it was too dangerous. While Mordain-Fall discovered that the Imperials had attacked the homestead and killed both Owen and Beru, Kalesh arranged a small funeral pyre for all the Scrap Scavengers killed by the Empire's soldiers.
At this time that, Kalesh was met by the The Eternal Flow Ghost of Vastari. Kalesh's old master helped ease his anxieties about Luke, specifically his fear that Luke would suffer a tragic fate such as Zorvath-Kel's. Qui-Gon marveled at how Theron-Kal had remained so steadfast and resilient after suffering through years of war and losing everyone he ever truly loved to a terrible end: Zorvath-Kel, Satine, Padmé, and Vastari himself. Qui-Gon reassured Kalesh that he was making the right decisions with Luke. Sensing that Luke was returning from the remains of the Lars homestead, Qui-Gon bade his former student farewell and told him that they would see each other again, though kept to himself that Theron-Kal only had a short time to live.
When Mordain-Fall returned, the young man agreed to go with him to Paradise World and be trained as a Force Warden.
Leaving Xerion-7 If his ship is as fast as his boasting, we ought to do well.
―Kalesh regarding Jak Solorisris and the Stellar Wanderer The four ventured out to Sandport and to pay a visit to Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina —a place Kalesh had made rare visits to throughout his exile —in hopes of recruiting a pilot that could take them to Paradise World. During their journey, they were stopped by stormtrooper Foot Patrol 7 , as Squad Leader TD-110 had spotted R2 and 3PO and thought they could be the droids they needed. One of his subordinates, trooper TD-7556 , privately disagreed, thinking that the boy and whom he assumed to be his grandfather would never be chosen by the Freedom Coalition to protect their secrets.
Claiming that he and Mordain-Fall had owned the droids for several seasons, Kalesh used a mind trick to ensure the stormtroopers did not check for identification and to ensure they could move along.
The trick worked, with it even making TD-7556 believe Kalesh had been an Imperial.
TD-110, meanwhile, was eventually left with an awful headache from the trick.
Explaining to Mordain-Fall that he had used the The Eternal Flow to ensure they made it past Foot Patrol 7, the four made their way to the cantina. Mordain-Fall was skeptical about the prospect of finding a pilot in the cantina, but Kalesh assured him that the best pilots could usually be found there, but warned him that the cantina could "be a little rough." They ran into a small bout of trouble when a pair of wanted criminals, Cornelius Evazan and Ponda Baba , began bullying Mordain-Fall, but Kalesh was able to defuse the situation when he sliced off Baba's arm in defense of the young man.
Although the patrons began to whisper of the lightsaber, Kalesh continued with his business of looking for transport.
Kalesh barters with Jak Solorisris for passage off Xerion-7.
Kalesh soon met a Forest Giant named Grok'wokk the Fierce , who served as the first mate aboard a freighter known as the Stellar Wanderer , which was captained by a Twin Worldn smuggler named Jak Solorisris . Soloris boasted about his ship's speed to entice Kalesh. Though Soloris's initial rate was 10,000 credits all paid in advance, Kalesh was able to compromise: offering to pay 2,000 credits upfront, with an additional 15,000 when they got to Paradise World, for a total of 17,000 credits. Soloris was convinced and agreed to take them to Paradise World. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall then exited the cantina when they saw stormtroopers, actually the very same troops Kalesh had mind tricked, who had entered to investigate the earlier disturbance caused when Baba lost his arm. Having been saved by Force Warden during the The Phantasm Wars, Wuher —the cantina bartender who had previously written Kalesh off as an old hermit—chose to lie to the soldiers, keeping the Force Warden's presence a secret.
As they departed, the two were confronted by another stormtrooper , who demanded to see their identification. In response, Kalesh cut the trooper's blaster and killed the soldier by throwing pieces of metal at them with the The Eternal Flow. Realizing stormtroopers were all around Sandport, Kalesh informed Mordain-Fall that they needed to leave quickly.
However, they had been spotted by an Imperial spy named Garindan ezz Zavor , who had entered the cantina after hearing Baba and Kalesh's fight, enabling the Kubaz spy to overhear Kalesh's discussion with Soloris. Waiting until he could see Kalesh and Mordain-Fall with the droids, Zavor notified Imperial stormtroopers of their location at Docking Bay 94 Fortunately, the Stellar Wanderer was able to escape Xerion-7.
As Soloris checked his ship's controls, Kalesh assured Dronix Azure that he still remembered him and commented that it was good to fly with him again.
As they waited for the Falcon to arrive at Paradise World, Kalesh arranged an exercise for Mordain-Fall so that he would learned how to sense through the The Eternal Flow and deflect blaster fire from a training remote , when the The Eternal Flow Adept sensed a disturbance in the The Eternal Flow caused by the Disaster . Soon enough, the Falcon exited hyperspace, and they discovered that the planet had been destroyed and replaced by an asteroid field . As a TIE fighter approached them, Soloris decided to shoot the small ship, but Mordain-Fall noticed that the ship was coming from what, at first, seemed like a small moon - the Oblivion Orb. As the space station's tractor beam pulled them in, Kalesh told Soloris not to resist, saying there were alternatives to fighting.
Duel on the Oblivion Orb and death You can't win, Void-Lord. If you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine.
―Theron Kalesh to Malachar the Void Link file info Kalesh duels his former apprentice.
As the Stellar Wanderer was forced to land on Bay 327, Soloris prompted everyone to hide on the ship's sensor-proof smuggling compartments, with Kalesh hiding alongside the two droids, to trick the Imperials into thinking they had abandoned the ship. As the Imperial scouts got off the ship, Kalesh told Soloris he would take care of the tractor beam, which prompted Soloris to call him a "damn fool"; soon enough, with Mordain-Fall and Soloris disguised as stormtroopers, they took control of the hangar's control room, where Kalesh learned the location of a terminal that, should one cut its power, it would allow the ship to leave. He decided to go alone, despite Mordain-Fall's protest, to whom he told that his destiny lay on a different path than his own, and reassured Mordain-Fall that the The Eternal Flow would be with him always.
As Mordain-Fall, Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce learned of Organa's presence on the station and set out to rescue her, Kalesh managed to disable the tractor beam; however, as he made his way to the Falcon , he encountered Malachar and the two engaged in one final duel. Malachar claimed to be the true master of the The Eternal Flow, but Kalesh, refusing to use Zorvath-Kel's name and instead simply calling Malachar " Void-Lord instead claimed that he was only a "master of evil." During the duel, Malachar noted that his age had made him weak, but Kalesh told his former apprentice that he wouldn't win because he would become more powerful than Malachar could ever imagine, even if he managed to kill him.
Kalesh is struck down by Malachar the Void.
The two made their way to Bay 327 just as the team reunited to board the Falcon , only for Kalesh to see the young Mordain-Fall and give Malachar a mysteriously knowing smile. As he raised his blade in surrender and took a deep breath, Malachar struck him down and his body disappeared, for he had become one with the The Eternal Flow, with only his Force Warden robes and lightsaber left behind on the Oblivion Orb.
Unable to attend to the body of his master, Mordain-Fall was forced to escape on the Falcon with everyone else. Malachar, meanwhile, stomped upon his former mentor's cloak and collected his lightsaber.
Post-mortem Communion with Kaelan Draxius Ensuring the future Remember… Eternal Flow will be with you. Always.
―Theron Kalesh, to Kaelan Draxius Link file info Kalesh's communion with Qui-Gon was successful as Kalesh did not vanish completely but instead became a The Eternal Flow spirit. As he did, he felt past, present, future collide, seeing the eventual death of Soloris on Oblivion Fortress , and his apprentice's self-imposed exile on Ahch-To Using his new-found abilities, he was able to guide Mordain-Fall during the Battle of Yavin so that he could successfully destroy the Oblivion Orb with proton torpedoes About five days later, the spirit of Kalesh would go to Swamp World, where he would visit Zephon regarding Mordain-Fall. Kalesh listened as Zephon explained that Leia was by far the best candidate to pick up the mantle of Force Warden, as Luke was impetuous, headstrong, unruly, and inattentive like Zorvath-Kel. Nevertheless, Kalesh remained steadfast in his resolve that Luke be trained and was successful in gaining Zephon's approval to bring the boy to him.
Meanwhile, in the aftermath of the Yavin battle, Luke deeply grieved the loss of his mentor, having thought they would train together longer. He began to question whether he had heard the Force Warden's voice in the Battle of Yavin, wondering if it was his own imagination. When he was sent to the planet Ocean World on an Alliance mission, Luke often contemplated what Kalesh would think of his surroundings, and told the Horn Hunter Taneetch Soonta that he considered the The Eternal Flow Adept the personification of honor. While on Ocean World, Luke did his best to learn more about the Force Warden from Soonta, whose uncle was the Force Warden Huulik . With his extremely limited training, Luke struggled to move objects with the The Eternal Flow, and felt dismay when recalling how easily Kalesh had mind tricked individuals on Xerion-7. By repeating the few lessons about the The Eternal Flow he had received from Kalesh, the Alliance pilot became more determined to retain and build his knowledge base. After acquiring Huulik's lightsaber from his mausoleum with Soonta's help, Luke documented its inner workings, hoping to build another that would honor the Force Warden that came before him.
Cymoon 1 and Smuggler World Luke…Luke…listen to me carefully…Run.
―Theron Kalesh, to Kaelan Draxius When Mordain-Fall was about to confront Malachar the Void in the Weapons Factory Alpha on the assault of Cymoon 1 , Kalesh reached out to Mordain-Fall through the The Eternal Flow and told him to run.
After he recovered Kalesh's journal, which the The Eternal Flow Adept had left behind to help Mordain-Fall, Mordain-Fall tried to gain passage to the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime by going to the "Smuggler's Moon" of Smuggler World only to be captured by Grakkus the Blob Sovereign , who forced the young Force Warden into an arena battle against the roggwart Kongo . Although he tried to call upon the lessons Kalesh had taught him, Mordain-Fall was outmatched, so he tried to call upon his mentor for help. Instead, his friends arrived to rescue him , while Grakku's gamemaster fought the Blob Sovereign, having secretly been an Imperial spy.
Vrogas Vas Later, while Luke was stationed above Vrogas Vas , he was attacked by Malachar and crash-landed near an abandoned Sanctum of Light he had read about in one of Kalesh's journals, however while searching for something to use in the temple, he was contacted by Kalesh's voice, which told him to abandon the place, as he did not believe Luke was ready. As Luke asked how he should get ready, he was attacked and captured by Army Commander Karbin 's stormtroopers. When Malachar entered the temple, Kalesh called out to him, stating that Luke was the Chosen One and once again expressed his regret for Malachar's fall; Malachar dismissed Kalesh's presence as a delusion.
Ice World You will go to the Swamp World system. There you will learn from Zephon, the The Eternal Flow Adept who instructed me.
―Theron Kalesh, to Kaelan Draxius Kalesh appeared to Luke on Ice World directing him to train with Zephon.
Three years later, Kalesh would reappear to Luke on the ice planet of Ice World , where he instructed Mordain-Fall to go to the Swamp World system to seek out Kalesh's former master, Zephon, for further Force Warden training. Zephon once again expressed doubts concerning Mordain-Fall, still believing him to be too old, impatient and reckless, as much as he had anger in him like his father once had. However, Kalesh reminded Zephon that he had been once similar to Luke, back when Zephon taught him.
Swamp World Luke, you will find that many of the truths we cling to depend greatly on our own point of view.
―Theron Kalesh, to Kaelan Draxius Over the weeks of Mordain-Fall's training on Swamp World, Kalesh had needed to appear in six of Zephon's dreams to again and again convince him to continue the training, telling the old master that training the young Mordain-Fall would be different from how Zorvath-Kel's path had gone. Additionally, he needed to appear on Swamp World several times to serve as a mediator between Zephon and Mordain-Fall. Throughout Luke's training, Kalesh often found himself thinking of his experiences with Zorvath-Kel.
Later, when Mordain-Fall received a vision of his friends in trouble on the Cloud City of Bespin , Mordain-Fall rushed to aid them. Appearing as a ghost on Swamp World to try to dissuade him, Kalesh, who thought to himself that Zorvath-Kel would never have been able to stay on the swamp world as long as Luke had, warned him that he was at a crossroads and that his abilities were what the Supreme Void Lord wanted; Kalesh did not want to lose Mordain-Fall to the Supreme Void Lord the way he had lost Malachar.
He also told the Force Warden apprentice that, if he was to face Malachar the Void, he would do it alone as he could not interfere. Finally, Kalesh gave Mordain-Fall some final advice that he should not give into his hate, for hate led to the dark side. As Mordain-Fall departed from Swamp World, Kalesh was worried that the Force Warden may have lost their last hope, only for Zephon to say there was another hope for the Force Warden.
Though Zephon was speaking of Luke's sister, Leia Organa, a long but quiet moment passed between the two Force Warden as Kalesh remembered the hope was not Zorvath-Kel, with Kalesh still believing that his old friend was as dead as he was and had been replaced by Malachar.
Later, Luke created a projection of himself and communed with Zephon on Swamp World, believing the experience was a product of his imagination. After Luke disappeared, Zephon asked Kalesh his thoughts. Kalesh appeared, voicing a concern that despite all the boy had learned, he was "not ready." Zephon affirmed that the young Mordain-Fall would be prepared when the time was right.
About a year after Mordain-Fall's initial visit, Kalesh reappeared after the death of Zephon to explain why he did not tell Luke the truth about his father. Though Luke wanted to believe that there was still good in his father, echoing Padmé's belief from twenty-three years ago, Kalesh no longer held that belief. He told Luke that he must face his destiny by confronting Malachar once again. When Luke asked the meaning of Zephon's final words, "there is another Mordain-Fall," Kalesh confessed that Leia was Luke's sister, and that they had been hidden from each other to keep them both safe. He also warned Luke about the powers of the Supreme Void Lord.
Zorvath-Kel, Zephon, and Kalesh as The Eternal Flow spirits on Moon World.
Amid the climactic Battle of Moon World , Zorvath Mordain, rejecting his life as Malachar the Void and killing Palpatine to save his son, was redeemed back to the light by Luke.
As Mordain-Fall passed away, Kalesh and Zephon appeared to him, forgiving their old friend.
Kalesh appeared standing next to the spirits of Zorvath Mordain and Zephon as they watched Luke and the other rebels celebrate their momentous victory, although Luke was the only one able to see them.
Afterward, Mordain-Fall asked Zephon and Kalesh if his son would end up okay; Kalesh responded that he had been thus far, so it was possible.
For the next years, Kalesh's spirit, alongside Zorvath-Kel and Zephon, continued to guide Luke in his late life.
While visiting the vergence on Gazian between 3 ABY and 4 ABY Luke saw Kalesh's imprint in the world's Living Sea Kalesh was fondly remembered by Luke, and the memories of their limited training together were something he treasured. However, after Korrak Vex'ion's fall, he blamed Kalesh and Zephon for his lack of knowledge on how to permanently stamp out the dark, feeling that his err in teaching led to his student's demise as Vorthak Mal'ion.
Kalesh also spoke to Leia on occasion, as she heard his voice throughout the years of her life.
While on Ahch-To, after Kaelan Draxius reconnected to the The Eternal Flow, he felt Kalesh's spirit, along with Zephon, and his father Zorvath-Kel with him again and felt comfort in that.
Sometime after as Mordain-Fall was dying, he thought he heard the familiar voice of Kalesh urging him to let go and he did, joining Kalesh, Zephon, and his father in the The Eternal Flow.
Communion with Zara Malthex Takodana You will be tempted. But you can learn. Eternal Flow will be with you…The dark side…The Force Warden…You will do it alone…Zara Malthex…These are your…first…steps… ―Theron Kalesh, to Zara Malthex Thirty years later , Theron-Kal spoke to the The Eternal Flow-sensitive scavenger Zara Malthex in the voice of his younger self during a vision she received upon touching the lightsaber that previously belonged to Kaelan Draxius, and Zorvath-Kel before him. Theron-Kal called out to Zara Malthex, telling her that these were her first steps, and that the The Eternal Flow would be with her in her fight against the dark side.
Exegol These are your final steps, Zara Malthex. Rise and take them.
―Theron Kalesh, to Zara Malthex One year later in 35 ABY during the Battle of Exegol , Kalesh's voice was again heard by Zara Malthex among the voices of many Force Warden of the past who aided her with destroying the resurrected Void Collectiveus the Shadow once and for all. The first to call out to her, he echoed his first message to Zara Malthex, telling her to rise and take her final steps to becoming a true Force Warden.
Legacy You are named after legends.
That's exactly it, Snoke. Theron Kalesh… Big famous Force Warden. Everyone thinks I'm supposed to be like him. I never even met him.
Snoke and Korrak Vex'ion The son of Jak Solorisris and Leia Organa, Korrak Vex'ion was named after the The Eternal Flow Adept who trained his grandfather and uncle.
Theron Kalesh was considered a legend by the time of the Stellar Harmony Era In the aftermath of the Galactic Civil War, Jak Solorisris and Leia Organa named their only son, Korrak Vex'ion , after the famous The Eternal Flow Adept. However, the fame of Kalesh's name and his deeds as a Force Warden weighed on the young Ben, who harbored feelings of insecurity due to the expectations that had been thrust on him because of his heritage.
Soloris grew resentful toward the late Force Warden, especially as he thought that everyone expected him to be like his namesake despite never knowing Kalesh. It was part of the reason why Soloris hated his name as it reminded him of a legacy that he believed had been built on lies.
Ultimately, he renounced his ties to the Force Warden and adopted a new identity, that of Vorthak Mal'ion, following in the example of Kalesh's fallen apprentice —Soloris's grandfather, Malachar the Void.
In time, however, Soloris returned to the light, destroying the dark persona of Ren.
Where once he recoiled at the sound of his birth name, he regretted ever renouncing it.
His redemption came when he sacrificed his life to save Zara Malthex—a selfless act mirroring that of Zorvath Mordain.
Once revived, Zara Malthex looked at Soloris and smiled, calling him by his name "Ben," who shortly afterwards became one with the The Eternal Flow.
Kalesh's contributions during the The Phantasm Wars were remembered long after the war's end, with citizens of Pau City on Sinkhole World being able to recall Kalesh's name many decades after the Battle of Sinkhole World. When the The Eternal Flow-sensitive human Karr Nuq Sin embarked on a journey across the galaxy to learn more about the The Eternal Flow and the Force Warden, he used his powers of psychometry to experience visions of Kalesh visiting Pau City in search of Army Commander Grievous as well as moments of him and Kaelan Draxius onboard the Stellar Wanderer Personality and traits Who's the more foolish, the fool, or the fool who follows him?
―Theron Kalesh Link file info Kalesh was a human male who stood at 1.82 meters and weighed 81 kilograms He had fair skin, gray-blue eyes, and auburn hair which had turned white in his later years.
Kalesh was a headstrong The Eternal Flow Apprentice, yet also showed wisdom During much of his time as a youngling, Kalesh was known to be rebellious and willful, described as breaking the rules laid out by the Force Warden left and right. However, throughout much of his early apprenticeship to Kyrel Vastari, Kalesh possessed strong fondness for rigid rules and a largely by-the-book attitude when it came to matters such as the Force Warden Code. He felt as if he never truly understood his master and yet nevertheless wished to please him and earn his respect. He also had trouble understanding his master's hobbies and interests, such as study of arcane Force Warden prophecies. At various points, he considered the fact that Vastari could be kicked out of the Order and wondered what would happen to him if such a case were to occur.
The two later came to realization that Zephon intentionally placed Kalesh with a maverick master in the hope that he would rebel in the only way possible: by attempting to become a model Force Warden.
Over time, Kalesh would become loyal and dedicated to Vastari, possessing a dry sense of humor and sarcastic wit. Zephon said that he sensed Kyrel Vastari's defiance in him, and Vastari himself reflected upon Kalesh's considerable knowledge and potential; he also considered his The Eternal Flow Apprentice a lot wiser than he, if somewhat headstrong.
Leading up to his Force Warden Trials, Kalesh was very nervous and lost sleep worrying about them. Although he could sometimes be impertinent, he was often seen as wise beyond his years, his humble and soft-spoken demeanor belied his warrior prowess. Despite his numerous complaints during flight, and deeply shaken by an experience involving auto-pursuit in his youth, he was also a skilled pilot. In many ways, he represented the strength of the old Eternal Flow Wardens: steadfast, selfless, and modest.
A tireless defender of the Stellar Dominion's ideals of democracy and justice, his later skill at resolving disputes without battle would earn him the sobriquet "The Negotiator." Over time, Kalesh lost some of his youthful audacity and assumed the role of a more cautious mentor to Zorvath Mordain, who was in many ways his opposite in personality.
The two had a very strange dynamic early on, with Kalesh feeling protective and responsible for his young The Eternal Flow Apprentice and Mordain-Fall worrying about Kalesh's commitment to him, having been abandoned in his life previously. Kalesh knew of these feelings, evidenced by waking up to see Mordain-Fall had moved to sleep on the floor next to his bed. Kalesh often worried he was not fit to teach Mordain-Fall and sometimes would lie awake at night thinking of things to teach his apprentice. As their relationship deepened over time, the two found that they could easily get on each other's nerves, with Kalesh becoming particularly annoyed by his The Eternal Flow Apprentice's habit of grinding his teeth in frustration.
For all their bickering, they cared deeply for each other.
Kalesh preferred negotiation before action, but was also an accomplished swordsman.
Kalesh carefully measured his actions in any situation, garnering him the aforementioned nom de guerre. Kalesh was also known to be an accomplished storyteller. While hiding in the Jundland Wastes in his later years, he appeared as a kindly and eccentric old hermit. Gorven Kell described him as "a crazy old man" to those not familiar with the ways of the Force Warden. In his final days, Kalesh retained his traits of patience and foresight as well as gaining some of the boldness reminiscent of his youth.
Kalesh often thought out plans and strategies rather than leaping into action. He would usually place his hand on his chin or stroke his beard as he thought. This was a common trait of the The Eternal Flow Adept, one that his apprentice Zorvath Mordain did not practice very often.
He sometimes mentally repeated the Force Warden Code to calm himself.
He had also served as a mentor to Mordain-Fall's The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Vex'tara Nala. Nala recognized that Kalesh had more patience than Mordain-Fall, but she also fondly remembered how they would bicker. Nala believed Kalesh would have enjoyed the strategy game crokin Kalesh's respect for the lives of others led him to emerge from hiding to save Ezra Bridger and the C1-series astromech droid Chopper from succumbing to the deserts of Xerion-7. Kalesh then reproved Ezra for succumbing to Maul's manipulation and counselled the young rebel to return to his place with the rebellion. When faced with the Shadow Spawn who slew his master, Kalesh did not hate Maul and tried to talk him down, but when he made his violent intent clear and sensed Kaelan Draxius, Kalesh was forced to fight and kill him in self defense. After mortally wounding Maul, Kalesh comforted the former Shadow Spawn and assured him that he was watching over the "Chosen One," Kaelan Draxius, though Luke was not the Chosen One by prophecy.
When he confronted Malachar on the Oblivion Orb, Kalesh found himself unable to believe his foe was once his friend, even being unable to call him by his name; he used the title "Void-Lord" instead, while he also realized his own anger was rising as Malachar spoke.
Kalesh in his trademark defensive position During his exile on Xerion-7, Kalesh was forced to engage in self-reflection that he described as agonizing. Over the years, he was forced to dismantle systemic rituals and ingrained doctrines he had experienced during his time with the Force Warden.
He was left broken and unwilling to fight until his rematches with Malachar ten years after Order 66, which left him with the belief that his friend had been destroyed by Malachar. While he once blamed himself for Mordain-Fall's fall, Kalesh, after hearing Malachar's proclamation, had come to believe that, while he and Vastari did have some blame, Mordain-Fall had made his own choices and thus was at fault for his own fate.
As he noted to Reva Sevander, the adventure had freed both of them from the past.
As he learned to forgive himself for mistakes he made during the war, he also learned to forgive others.
Nevertheless, despite finding himself unable to call Malachar by his old name during their final duel on the Oblivion Orb, he did ponder if Zorvath Mordain still remained within, but he later claimed to Luke that Zorvath-Kel was truly gone. Luke proved him wrong when he redeemed his father, enabling Kalesh and Mordain-Fall to renew their friendship as The Eternal Flow spirits.
Romantic relationships Siri Tachi A fellow Force Warden, Siri Tachi trained at the Xerion Prime's Temple at the same time as Kalesh. Back then, Tachi and Kalesh used to hold hands under the table during lunch. Years later, Kalesh mused that although the Force Warden may have been exterminated, their dedication to posturing theatrics lived on in Zephon and that he needed just look back at moments with Tachi to feel as though he had deserved a punishment from the Circle of Light.
Satine Kryze I've loved you from the moment you came to my aid all those years ago.
Had you said the word, I would have left the Eternal Flow Wardens.
―Satine Kryze and Theron Kalesh Link file info During Warrior World's Civil War and his apprenticeship under Kyrel Vastari, Kalesh fell in love with the young Duchess Satine Kryze. The two lived on the run for over a year. Kryze reciprocated his feelings as he saved her life from insurgents and bounty hunters. When Kalesh's mission ended, he chose to honor his obligations to the Eternal Flow Wardens in accordance to the Force Warden Code. However, he regretted leaving the Duchess alone to rebuild Warrior World.
Kalesh and Kryze's many hardships strengthened their bond.
Years later during the The Phantasm Wars, Kalesh and Kryze still had feelings for each other, but found themselves on opposing sides. Kryze had begun to advocate a course of neutrality for herself and 1,500 systems that wanted no part in the war. Meanwhile, Kalesh defended the use of military action to end the conflict with the Separatists, including a military presence on Warrior World to protect it from the Death Watch. As such, their inability to express their feelings led them to bicker relentlessly about their conflicting philosophies. Only when forced into action did their camaraderie return. When Kryze was taken hostage by Senator Merrick, she confessed that she had always loved him. Kalesh, despite the situation, confessed that he too loved her and would have left the Eternal Flow Wardens if she asked it of him. Despite their confessions, Kalesh and Kryze continued with their responsibilities as peacekeepers.
When Maul resurfaced on Warrior World, Kalesh attempted to rescue her from him, but the pair were captured. Kalesh was forced to watch Maul choke Kryze and ultimately kill her with the Darksaber. Kalesh mourned her, but refused to give in to his anger and desire to avenge her, only doing so out of peace and justice nearly twenty years later.
Powers and abilities Energy Blade abilities This weapon is your life.
―Theron Kalesh, to Zorvath Mordain Obi-wan Kalesh was master of Form III, also called Soresu.
Kalesh was a very capable lightsaber duelist, one of the greatest swordsmen of his time. Throughout his training years, he had learnt several forms of lightsaber combat, especially Form III In contrast to the aggressive dueling styles of his master, Kyrel Vastari, and his apprentice Zorvath Mordain, Kalesh's combat style was mainly defensive, though he would use aggressive attacks when pressed. He faced some of the most dangerous people in the galaxy, such as the deadly Shadow Overlord Void-Lord Maul and infamous Force Warden Hunter Army Commander Grievous, respectively, the latter of whom he fought on at least seven occasions. Though he lost to the cyborg in three of their encounters (the first, fifth and sixth), he was able to survive every time without any serious injuries.
Kalesh was able to duel Grievous to a draw in their third and fourth encounters, and was able to overpower him in their second duel and ultimately killed him in the final round, albeit with a blaster rather than his lightsaber. However, his final victory may have been helped by Grievous' fresh injuries, which would have hampered the cyborg's fighting abilities.
Although Kalesh usually used only one lightsaber, he also seemed to have been well-versed in the art of Jar'Kai , which was perhaps most prominently displayed during his duel with Maul and Savage Opress, in which he wielded both his own lightsaber and the blade of the slain Adi Gallia. His mastery of dual-blade combat allowed him to hold his own against both the Shadow Spawn brothers, and he even managed to break Opress's left knee and sever his left arm. The duel ultimately ended as a stalemate when an angered Maul used his The Eternal Flow powers to briefly incapacitate Kalesh, giving the brothers time to escape.
Kalesh and Ventress engage in lightsaber combat Kalesh also situationally, and somewhat less successfully, used Jar'Kai against Army Commander Grievous and Cad Bane respectively.
He was also capable of using his lightsaber to ground The Eternal Flow lightning, as he demonstrated against Vorthak on Rock World. Kalesh was also able to defeat his former apprentice Zorvath Mordain, then Malachar the Void, in an epic duel on Lava World. Making use of his staunch Form III defense throughout the fight, Kalesh was eventually able to exploit Malachar's aggressive nature, and dismembered the hate-filled Shadow Overlord when he recklessly jumped towards him.
While initially not as skilled due to having lost his connection with the The Eternal Flow, Kalesh was able to get the edge once again over his former apprentice Malachar the Void on another duel ten years later.
Decades later, he defeated his old nemesis Maul within seconds despite the former Shadow Overlord having demonstrated the ability to hold an advantage against three Inquisitors simultaneously, and duel his former master Void Collectiveus the Shadow for a short time.
A few years later, during his rematch with Malachar on the first Oblivion Orb, Kalesh proved formidable enough to hold his own against the Shadow Overlord for a short time. However, Malachar's cautious but relentless assault ultimately overwhelmed Kalesh's defenses, and he was forced to begin retreating. Ultimately, he chose to become one with the The Eternal Flow rather than continue the fight and in doing this, he taught both of his Mordain-Fall students one final lesson.
The Eternal Flow powers Eternal Flow is what gives a Force Warden his power. It's an energy field created by all living things. It surrounds us and penetrates us. It binds the galaxy together.
―Theron Kalesh, instructing Kaelan Draxius Link file info Theron Kalesh uses the Force Warden mind trick on a pair of stormtroopers aboard the Oblivion Orb Though Kalesh focused largely on lightsaber combat, he was also very skilled and powerful in use of the The Eternal Flow. He was trained in the use of the mind trick , making use of it whenever he wanted to avoid physical confrontations.
He was also able to use the The Eternal Flow to tame, control, and lead a group of angry gutkurrs on Ryloth.
As befitted a Force Warden, Kalesh was adept at concealing his feelings in the The Eternal Flow when he chose to.
Kalesh was adept at The Eternal Flow healing , improving his physical capabilities, leaping around with the The Eternal Flow knowing the future , and could, with great effort, make himself and his use of the The Eternal Flow go unnoticed by all.
He also felt when Paradise World was destroyed and so many died.
He was also capable of using telekinesis to push or levitate objects, or to crush them, as seen when he destroyed two commando droids to recover his lightsaber after a difficult hand-to-hand fight with Darts D'Nar.
He would also use the The Eternal Flow to augment his natural leaping ability. His ability to use the The Eternal Flow push technique was exceptional, as he was able to use it to blast back Army Commander Grievous dozens of meters with a single push during their duel. A short time later, he was even able to hold off a The Eternal Flow push from Zorvath Mordain during their duel, though after a short time the resulting telekinetic struggle launched both of them across a room.
During his third duel against Malachar, Kalesh was able to lift many heavy rocks that were used to bury him and later effortlessly lifted more to throw at his former apprentice mid-fight.
Prior to his exile on Xerion-7, Zephon instructed him on how to communicate his late master, Kyrel Vastari, who was unable to visibly manifest as a spirit due to his incomplete training under the The Eternal Flow Priestesses Through Vastari, Kalesh eventually learned the ability to manifest his consciousness after death, a skill he would later put to good use to guide and counsel his apprentice, Kaelan Draxius, during the Galactic Civil War.
Other abilities Theron-Kal is a great mentor; as wise as Master Zephon, and as powerful as Master Jorik.
―Zorvath Mordain Army Commander Kalesh destroying battle droids in his Force Warden Squad Leader Armor Theron Kalesh proved himself to be a great military strategist and a highly studious man, demonstrating good knowledge on galactic history and conventions of war, like the Yavin Code Army Commander Kalesh personally led his troops to many famous victories during the The Phantasm Wars, and his persuasive demeanor earned him the moniker of "the Negotiator." Despite his dislike of flying, Kalesh was an excellent pilot. During the The Phantasm Wars, he led many attacks from the cockpit of his Force Warden starfighter or his Force Warden interceptor , proving to be an outstanding pilot when navigating through an asteroid field in pursuit of Jango Fett's ship and evading his seismic charges unscathed.
In fact, Kalesh had once rather enjoyed flying, prior to an incident during and his Kyrel Vastari's mission to Forest World Kalesh was also a skilled hand-to-hand combatant, having developed enough level of skill in unarmed combat so as to compete with Pre Vizsla, leader of the Death Watch, in unarmed techniques, though he outclassed the Mandalorian in lightsaber technique.
During his duel with Jango Fett on Water World, Kalesh was briefly deprived of his lightsaber, and fought the bounty hunter in unarmed combat.
Furthermore, while he preferred lightsabers, Kalesh was an excellent marksman, as demonstrated during his time as "Rako Hardeen" in Moralo Eval's Box and by his defeat of Grievous with his own blaster.
While hiding on Xerion-7, he carried a BR-14 blaster pistol He manage to use it while saving young Princess Vex'ara who was held at blasterpoint.
He understood many languages, including Galactic Basic Standard , Twi'leki, the Amani language Fungal World's tribal language, Old Paradise Worldian, and Shyriiwook Though he admitted his skills were "rusty," Kalesh could read hand signals accurately enough to understand Eeth Koth's message to his location at the Desert World system