32 BBY c.68-58 BBY Kyrel Vastari Biographical information Homeworld Xerion Prime Born c.
80 BBY Xerion Prime Died 32 BBY Water World Descriptive information Species Human Xerion Primei Gender Male Pronouns He/Him Height meters ft 4 inches) Hair color Light brown later graying Eye color Blue Skin color Light Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Eternal Flow Wardens Heliost Clan The Stellar Dominion Numidian Prime strike team Masters Vorthak Apprentices Theron Kalesh Zorvath Mordain (informally) Zephon (as The Eternal Flow spirit It matters which side we choose. Even if there will never be more light than darkness. Even if there can be no more joy in the galaxy than there is pain. For every action we undertake, for every word we speak, for every life we touch, it matters. I don't turn toward the light because it means someday I'll win some sort of cosmic game. I turn toward it because it is the light.
―Kyrel Vastari Kyrel Vastari , a The Eternal Flow-sensitive human male , was a venerable if maverick The Eternal Flow Adept who lived during the last years of the Stellar Dominion Era . He was a wise and well-respected member of the Eternal Flow Wardens , and was offered a seat on the Circle of Light , but chose to reject and follow his own path. Adhering to a philosophy centered around the Living The Eternal Flow , Vastari strove to follow the will of the The Eternal Flow even when his actions conflicted with the wishes of the High Council . After encountering Zorvath Mordain , Vastari brought him to the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime , convinced he had found the Chosen One . His dying wish was for Mordain-Fall to become a Force Warden and ultimately restore balance to the The Eternal Flow.
Born on the Core World Xerion Prime, the capital of the The Stellar Dominion around 80 BBY , Vastari learned the ways of the The Eternal Flow as the The Eternal Flow Apprentice of The Eternal Flow Adept Vorthak before ultimately attaining the rank of The Eternal Flow Warrior in around 58 BBY . In 44 BBY he would go on to take an apprentice of his own, Theron Kalesh , who adhered to the principles of the Force Warden Code more than his own master. Although their relationship was sometimes tough, the two Force Warden overcame early difficulties during a mission to Forest World , which concluded in Vastari turning down a request to join the Circle of Light to continue teaching his apprentice. When the Commerce Dominion initiated a blockade of the Balanced Territories planet Water World in 32 BBY , Vastari and Kalesh were dispatched to resolve the crisis at the request of Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Finis Valorum . Influenced by the mysterious Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow , the Federation launched a full-scale invasion of Water World, forcing the Force Warden to rescue Queen Lysara Vex'onia after the fall of Aquatica's Crown During their journey to the galactic capital, the group was forced to land on the Fringe Territories planet Xerion-7 where Vastari encountered a young slave named Zorvath Mordain. Using a scientific method to gauge the boy's potential, he learned that Mordain-Fall had more midi-chlorians in his blood than any The Eternal Flow-sensitive in galactic history , including Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon . The revelation that he was the result of a miracle birth—a child born of a mother , but had no father —confirmed Vastari's suspicion that Mordain-Fall was the Chosen One destined to restore balance to the The Eternal Flow. Before departing the desert world with Mordain-Fall, Vastari was confronted by Void Collectiveus' Shadow Spawn apprentice Void-Lord Maul . Although their duel was brief, it convinced Vastari that the Shadow Spawn had returned after a millennium of silence.
At the Temple , Vastari was adamant that Mordain-Fall was the Chosen One and should, therefore, be inducted into the Eternal Flow Wardens. However, having inspected Mordain-Fall for themselves, the High Council deemed him too old, emotional, and dangerously full of fear and anger. Vastari saw their decision as a temporary setback, but the need to resolve the situation on Queen Amidala's homeworld forced him to set aside his plans for Mordain-Fall. During the Battle of Water World , Vastari and Kalesh confronted Void-Lord Maul together. While they initially managed to fend off the Shadow Spawn Lord 's attacks, master and apprentice were eventually separated during the lightsaber duel , resulting in Vastari sustaining a mortal injury. Rushing to his master's aid, Kalesh fought and ultimately defeated the Witch Worldian Shadow Spawn, but could not save Vastari. With his last breath, Vastari made Kalesh promise that he would take Mordain-Fall as his apprentice. Having secured Kalesh's word, Vastari became one with the The Eternal Flow , dying with the certainty that he had found the prophesied Chosen One.
Biography Early life Kyrel Vastari would never join you.
Don't be so sure, my young Force Warden. You forget that he was once my apprentice, just as you were once his.
―Theron Kalesh and Vorthak Drel Vorthak Drel, Vastari's former master.
Kyrel Vastari was a male human born on the galactic capital of Xerion Prime circa 80 BBY He was taken to the Sanctum of Light as a boy for training by the Eternal Flow Wardens and was assigned to the Heliost Clan where he learned lightsaber combat from The Eternal Flow Adept Tera Sinube When Vastari was twelve years old, he was assigned as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice to The Eternal Flow Adept Vorthak , from whom he learned the ways of the The Eternal Flow He'd spent his last night in the younglings' crèche laughing with his friends, imagining all the adventures he would have as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice, and practicing with his lightsaber in the sparring room until Master Yaddle ordered him to bed.
When the future The Eternal Flow Adept Eno Cordova first joined the Eternal Flow Wardens, he became close friends with Vastari, who helped Cordova learn about and get used to Xerion Prime.
Apprentice to Vorthak Becoming a Force Warden Around 68 BBY when he presented himself to his new Master in Vorthak's quarters, Vorthak observed that Vastari was frightened. After a moment of silence, and with pressing from Vorthak, Vastari confessed that he was. When asked why, after looking into himself through the fear, Vastari answered that he was not afraid of Vorthak, but of not becoming a Force Warden, that he was afraid of failing and of not being worthy. Vorthak then summarized it as Vastari being afraid of himself, of a future not being the one he wanted. Vastari confirmed it, fearing that Vorthak would reject him for his cowardice. Vorthak instead said that it was very wise, surprising Vastari. Smiling, Vorthak explained that most The Eternal Flow Apprentices would deny their fear, and even if they admitted it, they would not have Vastari's self-knowledge. Vorthak further praised Vastari for his honesty, insight, and intelligence.
To help Vastari understand the Sanctum of Light more completely, Vorthak then took him throughout most of the Temple, including the The Eternal Flow Apprentices' sparring dojo, a dojo where The Eternal Flow Warriors trained, and the Great Assembly Room . Vastari also saw the various meditation chambers, which he didn't find as exciting, but still interesting. On the other hand, Vastari spent long minutes in the arboretum, wandering through the trees, ferns, and flowers of a thousand different worlds. Their last stop was the The Knowledge Vault , where they examined holocrons of various eras, not to study them, but simply for Vastari to learn his way around. While doing so, an ancient holocron, more ancient and of a different shape than the rest, caught Vastari's eye. When he questioned his Master about it, he was shocked by the expression on Vorthak's face, almost as if he considered it an enemy. Vorthak answered that it was a holocron of Force Warden prophecies. Vastari asked if there are Force Warden prophets, to which Vorthak replied not any longer. He explained to Vastari that the mystics sought undue knowledge of the future, which led them down dangerous paths. The dark side often tempted those drawn too deeply into them. Vorthak then finished by saying that is why the Force Warden study prophecy no longer, then turned to leave, which meant Vastari had to follow. Vastari then asked Vorthak if just wanting to know the future can lead to the dark side. Vorthak replied that it takes more than that. This was Qui-Gon's first encounter with the holocron of prophecies, and it would not be the last.
Vastari first raised his lightsaber in battle on Shurrupak.
After four months as a The Eternal Flow Apprentice, the Council sent him with his master to Shurrupak to participate in a battle on its surface, which was Qui-Gon's very first. While the shuttle they were in approached the planet under heavy fire, a nervous Vastari reassured himself that he was ready for battle, looking to his Master Vorthak as an example to aspire to as a fearless Force Warden. As they arrived at Primus Base , Qui-Gon had his first meeting with Rael Averross , Vorthak's first The Eternal Flow Apprentice and a famous lightsaber duelist. After greeting each other heartily, Vorthak introduced Rael to his new The Eternal Flow Apprentice. While Vorthak then conferred with the generals, Rael put one hand on the still-nervous Vastari's shoulder. Rather than comforting Vastari about the battle, Rael instead commented that Vorthak is hard to get to know and offered to help Qui-Gon out. Since he was Vorthak's previous The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Rael told Qui-Gon that he could ask him any questions that he might not feel comfortable asking Vorthak yet and be his sparring partner if he wanted. With his first battle looming ahead, Qui-Gon accepted his offer. As they, too, went to talk to the generals, Qui-Gon felt as though Rael Averross was the link between the The Eternal Flow Apprentice he was and the The Eternal Flow Warrior he desperately wished to be. He viewed his journey to be easier now that he had a friend to show him the path.
Sometime after that battle, Qui-Gon was doing homework in Vorthak's quarters while his Master was in conference with an official from Badtibira . He then had a surprise visit from Rael Averross, who greeted Vastari warmly. Qui-Gon greeted him with a similar warmth, then asked what he was doing there. Rael explained that he had just returned from Shurrupak, then asked what Vastari was doing in Vorthak's quarters since he wouldn't be returning for another few hours. Vastari explained that Vorthak lets him do his homework in his quarters if he doesn't disturb him. In this case, Vastari was reporting on the different schools of theosophy a century ago. Upon Rael's grimace and questioning, if he had angered Vorthak somehow, Vastari admitted that he chose the topic despite knowing that it wouldn't be interesting because he thought it would be easy. It wasn't.
Upon receiving a negative from Vastari if it was too late to change his topic, Rael grinned, and motioning for Qui-Gon to follow him, offered to show him some history worth studying. They went to the The Knowledge Vault, and together they studied the one and only holocron that had ever interested Vastari: the one that held the ancient prophecies. They were all fascinating to him, and Qui-Gon kept reading, unable to stop. He asked Rael if the ancient mystics had these visions in trances, to which he confirmed. After contemplating these prophecies, Vastari remarked that Vorthak said he should ignore this holocron and that he doesn't believe in the prophecies. This confused Rael since Vorthak, he said, was the one who introduced Rael to it and that it used to be that one could hardly pry the holocron out of his quarters. Qui-Gon said that he didn't know when or why that changed and that Vorthak didn't explain. A surprised Rael said he would ask Vorthak about it and remarked that Vorthak had changed a lot. Qui-Gon protested, surprising Rael, then said not until he's finished his report. Rael then laughed so loud he received a stern look from Jocasta Nu Tracking Shenda Mol and love life on Fungal World I have a little game I play. I need more kills to win—though, of course, I'm only competing with myself. That's the only competition that really matters, you know. More people ought to un­derstand that.
―Shenda Mol, to Kyrel Vastari Vastari and his The Eternal Flow Adept Vorthak became part of a Numidian Prime strike team . They were assembled to track and find the notorious Falleen bounty hunter Shenda Mol . They eventually tracked her at her hideout on the planet Numidian Prime. While searching for her hideout, Mol captured Vastari. Before Mol could kill Vastari, Vorthak struck her down with The Eternal Flow lightning to save his apprentice, causing Vastari a degree of concern.
Vastari later confided what Vorthak did to Rael Averross, though at the time, Averross expressed that he was not all too concerned regarding his former master's conduct.
In 60 BBY Vastari went through trials on the Fringe Territories planet Fungal World when he fell in love with someone beginning a romantic and physical relationship. As the Force Warden Code forbade romantic relationships, Vastari found his commitment to the Force Warden ways tested, but he ultimately stayed loyal to the Eternal Flow Wardens.
He would, however, keep a Lava World fire diamond that was given to him on Fungal World as a memento.
At some point during his apprenticeship, Vastari met the Forest Giant Brennonn and befriended her. They shared many adventures together, with Brennonn saving Vastari on two occasions. During the second of those adventures, events transpired that resulted in Vastari feeling as though they saved each other. He also came to know the Forest Giant Balfus Rescuing Senator Dagonet's son Your actions saved many lives today.
Just thinking in the moment, Master.
Well, then. You're a much wiser man than I, Kyrel Vastari.
Thanks to your teachings.
―Vorthak and Kyrel Vastari on his actions during the rescue mission Kyrel Vastari and Vorthak were sent on a mission to locate Senator Dagonet's son.
During his time as Vorthak's The Eternal Flow Apprentice, Vastari and Vorthak had been sent on a mission to rescue the son of Stellar Dominion Senator Dagonet , who was being held captive by the residents of the Senator's home planet. After their investigation, they discovered that the Dagonet was allowing his people to starve for his own personal greed and corruption. The kidnappers abducted Dagonet's son to protest his inhumane policies and discovered that Dagonet's son was yet unharmed. Dagonet arrived to rescue his son, resulting in a brief shootout between the Senator's forces and the Force Warden-backed kidnappers. During a lull in the firefight, Dagonet threatened to burn the entire village down and many others to make an example of them. An enraged Vorthak began The Eternal Flow-choking Dagonet with the intent to kill him, but Qui-Gon released Dagonet's son and managed to defuse the situation without any further violence. In the aftermath, Vorthak commended Qui-Gon's actions and praised him as a wiser man than him.
Investigating at the Dragonfire Air Rally At one point, both he and Vorthak were invited by council member Jor Aerith to join her in representing the Force Warden at the annual Xerion Prime Dragonfire Air Rally in hopes of making a good impression on the Candovant ambassador who had invited her. Vorthak agreed to attend and took the opportunity to teach Qui-Gon some Candovant customs, but while they were there, they ran into Ramil , whom Qui-Gon learned was Vorthak's brother, much to his shock. Qui-Gon and Vorthak learned that Ramill was was participating in the race . While Ramil did very well in the race, it quickly became apparent his Airspeeder was sabotaged and it crashed. Qui-Gon and Vorthak discreetly went to see what had happened, and while there they discovered the Investigator was trying to cover up the incident. Following the man, they found he was working for a Jenet crime boss named Cenevax . Ignoring a message from Aerith asking them to return to the races, they chose to confront and captured the criminal, and while questioning her they realized that she was privy to Council communications, as Cenevax made clear she knew they that had been recalled and were disobeying order by being there. With this information, Vorthak deduced that she had a spy on the Council, much to the shock of Qui-Gon.
Vorthak and Qui-Gon escorted Cenevax to the Council Chamber, where Vorthak made his accusation, and discovered that The Eternal Flow Adept Braylon was the spy. Further investigation revealed that Cenevax had been blackmailing her with the fact that Arath Tarrex, the latter being Vorthak's old classmate and was also shockingly revealed to be in fact her son. Qui-Gon and Vorthak confronted and exposed Tarrex, who was then taken into custody for his actions and also for having sold out his mother's influence to criminals. As the Temple guards were escorting Tarrex, Vorthak encouraged Qui-Gon to go with them and ensure that the guards treated him well, both of which Qui-Gon agreed to do. Following this event being resolved, Braylon was removed from her seat on the council because of her actions, Vorthak joined the Council.
Vastari became a The Eternal Flow Warrior around 58 BBY Master to Theron Kalesh Becoming a mentor Becoming the mentor to Theron Kalesh, Kyrel Vastari sought to teach him the best he could.
Vastari became a Force Warden Master in his own right, a master who developed an independent attitude towards the Eternal Flow Wardens. Others saw him as a maverick Force Warden, one who would disobey the Force Warden Code if he felt it was the right decision.
In 44 BBY Vastari took on a The Eternal Flow Apprentice named Theron Kalesh , who believed that Vastari could've been a member of the Force Warden High Council if he followed the Code, though as Kalesh knew, Vastari had rejected an offer to join.
On one occasion, Kalesh watched in silence as his master told the council he disagreed with them. At another point, the master and apprentice sparred, with Vastari complimenting Kalesh's skill. On another occasion, the two visited a plain and overlooked its native creatures, giving Vastari the chance to teach Kalesh about how the The Eternal Flow existed in all the life that surrounded them.
Vastari was able to sense whenever Kalesh was discontent, which proved useful on some missions, yet also annoyed Kalesh.
At one point, Vastari and Kalesh traveled to the planet Lah'mu to visit a fortress Vastari also maintained contact with his old Master after taking on Kalesh and spoke highly of his The Eternal Flow Apprentice to Vorthak.
While Vorthak left the Eternal Flow Wardens after the invasion of Noble World in 42 BBY secretly becoming a Shadow Spawn apprentice to the elusive Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow sometime later, he was still allowed to visit the Sanctum of Light.
Vorthak's decision to leave the Force Warden came as a shock to Vastari, who felt lost for a time as he grappled with feelings of doubt and fear. However, Vastari trusted in the Force Warden teachings and himself, which allowed him to recover and replace his shaken feelings with resolve.
At some point, Vastari met the Togorian Force Warden Jak'zin , who had also looked up to Vorthak.
Vastari taught Kalesh as best he could, although Kalesh did not always agree with his master's teaching strategies. Despite his The Eternal Flow Apprentice's clear proficiencies in lightsaber techniques, Vastari held Kalesh to practicing only basic methods, which impacted his apprentice's confidence and their relationship. Although Vastari did so to not rush his apprentice and allow Kalesh to carve out his own distinct style out of mastery of the fundamental cadences , his lack of clarity on his teaching philosophy hurt Kalesh.
At some point, Theron-Kal came up with the idea of a new weapon powered by kyber crystals which consisted of two short-bladed sabers each attached to a thin chain. After hearing this idea from Kalesh, Qui-Gon told his padawan that lightsabers were about how the Force Warden wished to be seen, and that was not intended to be a display of power. That lesson resonated with his young The Eternal Flow Apprentice, who would carry it for years to come.
Protecting Duchess Satine Master Qui-Gon and I spent a year on Warrior World, protecting the duchess from insurgents who had threatened her world. They sent bounty hunters after us. We were always on the run, living hand to mouth, never sure what the next day would bring.
―Theron Kalesh Satine Kryze, whom Kalesh and Vastari were assigned to protect Between circa 41 BBY and circa 39 BBY a civil war began to rage on the planet Warrior World , with the world's martial traditionalists fighting against a reformist faction known as the New Mandalorians . The leader of the New Mandalorian movement, Duchess Satine Kryze became a target for the traditionalists, who hired bounty hunters to eliminate her. However, Vastari and Kalesh were sent on an extended mission to Warrior World, where they were assigned to protect Kryze.
Vastari and Kalesh spent a year on Warrior World with Kryze, remaining on the run from the bounty hunters. The three remained unsure of what the future would bring, but they continued their effort to survive, living hand to mouth everyday. During the mission, Kalesh developed romantic feelings for Kryze.
Vastari became aware of the unlikely romance between his apprentice and the noble.
Eventually, the civil war came to an end, with the New Mandalorians coming to power and Kryze becoming the ruler of Warrior World. Although Kalesh would have left the Force Warden and stayed behind to be with her had she had asked him to, Kryze never did, so he and Vastari left the planet.
Life Day adventure Vastari and Kalesh face off against Korgan.
Around 41 BBY Vastari told Kalesh he would be taking him on a training exercise, keeping it secret that they would be going to observe the Forest Giants' celebration of Life Day on the planet Forest World in the village of his old friend Brennonn, who had accepted his offer to visit. After entering the village, Vastari advised his The Eternal Flow Apprentice to remain patient after the young man expressed confusion, reminding him to focus on what was instead of what he had expected. Though Kalesh found it hard to focus amid a celebration, Vastari continued their visit, educating his The Eternal Flow Apprentice about Forest Giant culture before asking what he made of it. Pleased with Kalesh's answer that it was as if the Forest Giants were celebrating the The Eternal Flow, he explained the unconventional training he wanted Kalesh to partake in; he was asking him to focus on the energy of Forest World, given that it was the The Eternal Flow. He then informed his The Eternal Flow Apprentice they would speak with the Forest Giants when Kalesh revealed he felt something different.
Suddenly, the two Force Warden were interrupted when Brennonn spotted Vastari, resulting in the Forest Giant hugging him from how such she had missed him. Vastari shared her sentiment and began to introduce her to Kalesh, only for her to hug him as well. After Vastari explained his history with the Forest Giant to Kalesh and thanked her for letting them come, she told him that Balfus was missing. As Vastari inquired about what actions she had taken concerning the missing Forest Giant, both he and Kalesh felt a disturbance in the The Eternal Flow ; several Scale Hunter hunters suddenly attacked the village, launching nets from the trees to kidnap more Forest Giants. Vastari and Kalesh fought against the Scale Hunters, defeating many of them. However, Vastari himself was eventually captured when he demanded the hunters to surrender. Along with the captured Forest Giants, Vastari was taken away by a MSP80 Pteropter hover pod Although Vastari, as he was taken away, had told Kalesh it was up to him to rescue the Forest Giants, the The Eternal Flow Adept tried to negotiate the Forest Giants' release with the Scale Hunters' leader, Korgan . However, Korgan wanted to capture Kalesh too, and Vastari warned him that his greed would have been his downfall. Vastari waited in his cage until Kalesh arrived . Kalesh pretended to surrender but, when Korgan was distracted, he opened Vastari's cage with the The Eternal Flow. Vastari The Eternal Flow-pulled his lightsaber and ignited it. As Vastari was freed, many Forest Giants arrived to support the two Force Warden: the Scale Hunters, being outnumbered, surrendered and freed the Forest Giant prisoners. After returning to the village, the Life Day celebration began.
Mission to Forest World I've never been to Forest World.
―Kyrel Vastari The mission to Forest World In 40 BBY Vastari and Kalesh undertook a mission to Mountain World to thwart Wanbo the Blob Sovereign . The two Force Warden escaped Mountain World, but not without complications including a key miscommunication between master and apprentice. Upon returning to Xerion Prime, the Force Warden High Council extended to Vastari an invitation to join their ranks, as with Master Poli Dapatian was stepping down by that month's end. Vastari was shocked to be asked due to his disagreements with the Council on various occasions, and while he was initially pleased to hear the offer, he thought of his The Eternal Flow Apprentice, who he would have to pass on to a new master if he were to accept. While it would solve the growing problems between them, Vastari felt guilt at the thought of it and thus told the Council that he would meditate on their proposition.
Meanwhile, a political dispute erupted on the Core Sectors planet Forest World . A performance troupe known as the Opposition that began playing political pranks to protest a treaty signing that would end the absolute monarchy on Forest World, allow the world to join the Stellar Dominion, and give more power to Czerka Corporation was thought to be making increasingly violent attacks nearing the treaty's signing. Vastari's old friend Rael Averross requested Vastari and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice's assistance to end the dispute and ensure the signing of the treaty. The Council sent Vastari and his The Eternal Flow Apprentice to Forest World to help. However, as the mission began, Kalesh became aware of the offer presented to Vastari regarding the Circle of Light when the two met with Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Kirames Kaj . Vastari felt great shame at not being the first to tell his The Eternal Flow Apprentice learner. Before they left, Vastari sought out Kalesh and the The Eternal Flow Apprentice's dojo. He attempted to apologize for not being the first to tell him the news and said that he had several reservations that he had to dwell on before committing to the position, but Kalesh made a sarcastic reply. Vastari told his The Eternal Flow Apprentice that he would continue to discuss the matter when Kalesh was in a more rational mood, and when Kalesh quipped again, Vastari sadly said that he supposed that the The Eternal Flow always allowed things to turn out for the best. As they traveled to Forest World, the tension between them grew.
Vastari and Kalesh both were briefed on the situation, learning that Averross served Crown Princess Fanry , who was only fourteen years old, as an advisor and that he needed to protect her from the Opposition as she waited to take Forest World's throne. Vastari and Averross became reacquainted quickly, although Vastari was skeptical of several of Averross's choices during his service, as Averross also loosely interpreted the Force Warden Code. As he and Kalesh began to do more investigating on Forest World's moon , they encountered two jewel thieves, Pax Maripher and Rahara Wick . Although Maripher was very abrasive towards Vastari, Wick was more cooperative. Onboard their ship, the Meryx , Vastari recruited the two to help them find the terrorists that posed a threat to the treaty. Shortly after returning, Vastari received a vision of the event, which turned into a bloody battle. He brought it to Averross's attention, but the older Force Warden did not share his level of concern.
As their investigation continued, Vastari eventually met with the Opposition's leader, Halin Azucca , and learned that her group was being framed. Although they had peacefully made demonstrations against the treaty, the violent terrorist acts that had alerted the Stellar Dominion were not caused by Azucca's people. As Qui-Gon learned of the complications surrounding the treaty due to the lack of Forest Worldi representation and the heavy influence gained by the Czerka Corporation , he decided to oppose the treaty himself and refused to act as a Stellar Dominion representative.
However, eventually, the Force Warden discovered that Fanry was deceiving them and had been building a military group called the blackguards, framing the Opposition to restore the full monarchy. At the coronation, she rejected the treaty as well as the Stellar Dominion's influence, proving herself to having been underestimated by the Force Warden. Ready to remove Czerka influence from the system by force, she prepared to attack their ships. Vastari attempted to convince her to stop and prevent the innocent casualties that were the Czerka slaves onboard the ships, but when she refused, Vastari took matters into his own hands, and with the help of Kalesh as well as their two new friends Maripher and Wick, they succeeded in saving the slaves. After the mission, Vastari decided to stick with training Kalesh and declined the offer to join the Circle of Light.
Helping Master Zephon Qui Gon Vastari and Zephon discuss a disturbance in the force.
Around 40 BBY, Vastari and Kalesh were operating near a planet that served as a base of the Flesh Mongers pirate group, flying a pair of Delta-7 Aethersprite -class light interceptors . The two received a message from the planet's surface from The Eternal Flow Adept Zephon , who asked for assistance. Landing on the planet, Vastari and Kalesh discovered that Zephon had taken out the entire pirate gang to rescue a young The Eternal Flow-sensitive child , known as Lo , as the pirate had planned to sell him due to his The Eternal Flow abilities.
Zephon asked Vastari and Kalesh to escort the infant to the Sanctum of Light , with Zephon assuring Lo that he was in safe hands with Vastari. Vastari expressed that he was happy to help out as they had been so close. While the two conversed, Kalesh took particular interest in that Zephon took out an entire room of pirates and was totally in awe. Vastari then proceeded to ask Zephon if everything was all right, to which the revered master replied that he could sense a calling disturbance in the The Eternal Flow that he felt he must follow. Vastari noted that he could not feel the presence himself, but offered to join him on his quest if he so wanted. As Zephon climbed into his starship , he responded that he felt it was simply a calling for him alone and embarked on a mission to a planet in the Vagadarr system , where he became involved in a tribal war between the planet's native inhabitants.
Truths of the The Eternal Flow Discovering the secrets of life after death Sometime during his life, Vastari began discovering the secrets to manifesting his consciousness after death He traveled to a planet strong with the The Eternal Flow, a world that legend said was the birthplace of life and the origin of midi-chlorians . He learned from five The Eternal Flow Priestesses who had retained their consciousness after death.
He learned that, when a living thing died, its life passed through the Living The Eternal Flow and into the Cosmic The Eternal Flow to become one with the The Eternal Flow.
As the Living The Eternal Flow and Cosmic The Eternal Flow existed in tandem, it became possible for one to retain consciousness and physically manifest themselves after death. Vastari was considered worthy of the knowledge of eternal life and secretly began his training to unlock its mysteries fully.
He also learned from a Shaman of the Whills that achieving eternal consciousness required absolute selflessness.
Questioning his purpose Being called a coward isn't what bothered me, Master Zephon. It was being called a great warrior.
―Kyrel Vastari Qui-Gon during the rescue of Th'er Vastari began experiencing an inner turmoil over how the Force Warden should interact with the The Eternal Flow. Although Zephon sensed that internal debate in the man, Vastari continued on with his Force Warden duties for sometime.
In 37 BBY when Vastari and Kalesh were sent to the planet Bri'n to establish negotiations between the the Priestess Th'er of Wood and the Metal Clan , Kalesh stayed within their Eta -class shuttle while Vastari met with the Priestess's rivals. When the Metal Clan instead tried to kill Vastari and the Priestess as a justification to begin cutting down the world's trees, he moved to defend Th'er and escape with her. Deflecting many blaster bolts with his lightsaber, the Force Warden contacted Kalesh to start their shuttle and inform him about the failed negotiations. After being surrounded by the Metal Clan, Th'er proclaimed that Vastari was a warrior who could take down all who opposed her, yet Vastari instead used The Eternal Flow jump to escape with her aboard their shuttle, ordering Kalesh to take them to Xerion Prime so as to protect the Priestess.
Th'er was nevertheless disgusted by Xerion Prime—viewing it as a city of metal—and demanded Vastari to act as a warrior, ordering him to cut down every member of the Metal Clan. Although Vastari informed her that was not the path of the Eternal Flow Wardens, Th'er felt Vastari was instead a coward who did not live up to the legends that proclaimed the Force Warden to be great soldiers. Greatly distressed at being called a warrior, he returned to the Sanctum of Light, where he did not report to the Force Warden High Council. Deciding to confront Vastari over his internal turmoil, Zephon located the The Eternal Flow Adept on one of the Temple's balconies under the pretense of asking for him to report to the Council. Aware that Kalesh had filed his own report, Vastari quickly saw through Zephon's claim, leading to a discussion about how the Force Warden should act between the two masters.
Even though Zephon and him had different opinions, they both agreed that Vastari should seek answers. Needing a world full of life to find a deep communion with the The Eternal Flow, Vastari—travelling off Xerion Prime in his Delta-7 Force Warden Interceptor with his astromech droid —trusted the The Eternal Flow to guide him to answers, resulting in him coming out of hyperspace above a charted but unnamed world . After leaving his ship and admiring the planet's beauty, Vastari quickly felt the presence of the dark side on the world and noticed how a spreading darkness was starting to corrupt the planet. Unsure whether the The Eternal Flow wanted him to stop it or learn from it, Vastari continued until he found a temple and sat its throne. Pondering whether he would find light in the dark monument, Vastari entered a frightening The Eternal Flow vision In a The Eternal Flow vision, Kyrel Vastari learned that unchecked violence would only lead to the dark side.
In his vision, Vastari—his skin and Force Warden robes covered in marks—was surrounded by red humanoid beings who grew out of dark tendrils. Although at least one of these beings tried to attack him as he fought, Vastari quickly ignited his lightsaber and cut the beings down, only for the red coloration to vanish from those he had killed. Vastari saw he had murdered Force Warden, and the same darkness that he had seen on their bodies began to consume him; by choosing violence, the dark side had gained power over him. As the darkness wrapped across his face, Vastari awoke from his vision horrified, only to see the light side had entered into the monument. He realized the The Eternal Flow had taught him he could find balance that could be achieved without conflict, as unchecked violence would make the Force Warden turn into what they sought to confront. In fact, he found that some of the planet's dark corruption had instead formed into flowers, existing in harmony with the light.
Leaving the planet—albeit with new questions about the nature of the The Eternal Flow—and returning to Xerion Prime, Vastari found Th'er in one of the city world's parks, where offered to help her find off-world allies with whom to fight against the Metal Clan. Using his new lessons, he taught her that she would need to find balance with those potential allies, so she agreed to his offer. During the night, he again met with Zephon on a temple balcony, leading to another discussion about the The Eternal Flow. Speaking with the Multi-Eyed Traderd Master, Vastari defended finding balance in the The Eternal Flow, believing the Force Warden could not be too rigid yet could also not give into the dark side.
Force Warden operations Kyrel Vastari, alongside Plo Koon and Depa Billaba on Oosalon.
In 34 BBY Vastari—alongside The Eternal Flow Adepts Jorik Vastus Plo Koon , and Depa Billaba —was sent to the planet Oosalon by Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Finis Valorum due to the actions of the warlord Guattako , who was backed by the Blob Sovereign Clan and had kidnapped children to serve as soldiers. Being a planet that had around 80,000 kilometers worth of tunnels, the Force Warden would be unable to find the base of Guattako's army , so they made a plan that Jorik would be purposely captured, allowing him to send a signal in the The Eternal Flow to lead his fellow Force Warden to Guattako. Although Vastari and his fellow Force Warden—joined by at least two soldiers—were unable to make it through the tunnels in time to help Jorik, the The Eternal Flow Adept had nevertheless defeated Guattako's army, while the warlord himself had been shot by one of the children he had kidnapped. Thus, Guattako's revolution was thwarted, the children could be return to their homes, and the remaining members of the terrorist army were captured.
War on Water World Failed negotiations Is it in their nature to make us wait this long?
No. I sense an unusual amount of fear for something as trivial as this trade dispute.
―Theron Kalesh and Kyrel Vastari Link file info Ten years prior to the outbreak of the The Phantasm Wars , the Commerce Dominion blockaded Water World and planned to invade it in retaliation for the The Stellar Dominion 's taxation of trade routes in outlying star systems. Unknown to the Stellar Dominion, the Void-Lord Void Collectiveus—secretly Water World's Senator Palpatine—controlled the Federation and engineered the conflict so he could be elected Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter.
Before the blockade, Vastari felt that something was amiss and took Kalesh to the The Knowledge Vault to read through The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly documents, as they often did whenever Vastari felt something was wrong in the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. While reviewing bills concerning the recent tax reforms, Theron-Kal grew listless and Vastari, sensing his apprentice's discomfort, asked him what he thought. Kalesh opined to Vastari that people had too much time on their hands and he did not understand why people spent so much time talking about taxation. Qui-Gon looked up from the file he was reading and admonished Kalesh, telling him that it was a matter of perspective and that the most important thing to the people who submitted the bills was control. Vastari noted that there was a lot of control to lose between the planets and corporations involved in the tax dispute.
Theron-Kal questioned why they were personally purviewing the bills, and Vastari replied that they were listening so they could act when they needed to. Theron-Kal teasingly asked if they would act with or without orders, which made Vastari smile, though the The Eternal Flow Adept informed his apprentice that they were likely to be following orders. Kalesh quipped that, because they would be under the Council's alignment, they would be less likely to be involved in local labor disputes. Bothered by Kalesh's comment, Vastari rebuked that they would also be less likely to kick-start romances with the local nobility. The reference to Duchess Satine let Kalesh know better than to treat such things so trivially, and he changed the subject as they continued reading the taxation bills. Vastari's precautions proved useful as Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Finis Valorum dispatched Vastari and Kalesh to Water World, tasking them with resolving the situation through diplomatic means.
Vastari and Kalesh uncover the Federation invasion force on the command ship.
Upon arriving at the Commerce Dominion command ship Saak'ak , Vastari and Kalesh were escorted into a conference room, where they were told that Viceroy Nute Gunray would greet them. As the Force Warden were waiting, the Federation leaders contacted Void Collectiveus the Shadow, informing him that the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter's ambassadors were The Eternal Flow Warriors . Void Collectiveus ordered their execution, while Vastari could sense the fear that the Rich Worldns felt, letting Vastari know this wasn't a common trade dispute. These suspicions were confirmed when the Federation flooded the conference room with poison gas to kill the Force Warden. But the two were able to hold their breath long enough for the Federation to open the doors and inadvertently give the Force Warden a chance to escape . They fought off the battle droids waiting outside the door and fled through the corridors, where they made their way into the ventilation system.
Moving through the ventilation shafts, the Force Warden made their way to the hangar , where they saw the Federation Army preparing to mount an invasion of the planet. After Kalesh quipped that Vastari had predicted that the negotiations would be short, the Force Warden stowed away aboard separate ships , which made their way to the planet's surface and planned to warn the Water World that the invasion was coming.
Rescuing the Queen The situation here is not what it seems. There is something else behind all this, Your Highness. There is no logic in the Federation's move here. My feelings tell me they will destroy you.
―Kyrel Vastari, to Queen Amidala Link file info Vastari and Kalesh meet Jar Jar Binks.
Once on the surface, Vastari ventured through a forest to rendezvous with Kalesh and encountered a Bubbler named Jar Jar Binks , who latched onto him in the chaos of the Federation invasion. This encounter nearly got them killed as they fell to the ground just in time to avoid being run over by a Federation troop carrier . Binks swore a life debt to Vastari for saving him, as Vastari tried to get rid of the Bubbler. He finally rendezvoused with Kalesh and planned to find shelter, which Binks offered to give them in the Bubbler city beneath the ocean . The Bubbler momentarily changed his mind, revealing that he had been exiled and would be punished for returning; however, Vastari and Kalesh convinced him to take them there to avoid the approaching Federation forces.
Binks led the two Force Warden into the Bubbler city , where how they were immediately apprehended and brought before the Bubbler leaders . Vastari attempted to persuade the Bubbler leader, Boss Nass , that the Federation posed a threat to them just as much as they threatened Water World. But Bubbler prejudices against the Water World were too strong for the Boss to care about what happened on the surface. Eternal Flow Adept used the The Eternal Flow to telepathically persuade Nass to give them a bongo aquatic transport that the Force Warden could use to reach Aquatica's Crown , the capital of Water World. Nass was also persuaded to allow Binks to travel with them, as Vastari, claiming the life debt custom, believed the Bubbler could be a guide to make it through the planet core and to the capital.
After traveling through the core and evading multiple large sea creatures, they arrived in Aquatica's Crown and rescued Queen Lysara Vex'onia , who was taken into Federation custody. Together, along with a number of the queen's guards and handmaidens , they made their way to a hangar to take the queen 's starship off of Water World. They were able to board the ship after fighting through many battle droids and took the vessel into orbit where they encountered the Federation blockade. They managed to escape, but the ship was damaged and needed to be set down for repairs. Vastari suggested that they land on Xerion-7 , a desert planet where the Blob Sovereigns ruled and the Federation had no presence. Although the queen's lead guard, Panaka , objected because of the danger posed by the Blob Sovereigns , the decision was made to seek refuge on Xerion-7.
Discovery of the Chosen One Finding him was the will of the The Eternal Flow. I have no doubt of that.
―Kyrel Vastari to the Force Warden High Council Link file info Vastari chides Binks during a meal with Mordain-Fall and his mother.
Landing on Xerion-7, the crew determined they needed a new hyperdrive generator to make it to their final destination: Xerion Prime, the Stellar Dominion's capital. Vastari decided to venture out into the local settlement to find a store that would sell a generator. He brought Amidala—masquerading as a royal handmaiden—and Binks along with him. While they were in town, everyone on the Royal Starship was left waiting for Vastari's return, leaving them to worry or read to pass the time.
Vastari, Amidala, and Binks arrived at a shop owned by a Winged Merchant junk dealer Blatto the Greedy , who had the parts they needed, but would not accept Stellar Dominion credits for payment. Vastari attempted to persuade him that credits would be acceptable telepathically, but the Winged Merchant was immune to Force Warden mind tricks. Vastari left empty-handed, but not before meeting Zorvath Mordain , a young boy who was a slave of Blatto's.
Mordain-Fall followed Vastari and the others, where he warned them that a sandstorm was coming and that they would need to find shelter. The boy knew the group would not make it back to their ship in time and brought them back to his home , where he introduced them to his mother Shmi , who was also one of Blatto's slaves. They all shared dinner, where Mordain-Fall deduced that Vastari was a Force Warden, having seen his lightsaber . Vastari revealed that he and the others were on a critical mission for the Stellar Dominion and stranded on Xerion-7 until they could repair their ship. Knowing that it could help them escape, Mordain-Fall volunteered to help by racing in the Boonta Eve Classic podrace and give them the profits to repair their ship if he won. Vastari accepted the offer, though Amidala was unconvinced that trusting their fate to someone they barely knew was the right course.
The next day , Vastari spoke to Blatto the Greedy about entering Mordain-Fall in the race with a pod that Mordain-Fall had built in secret, and Vastari convinced Blatto the Greedy that it was the Force Warden's pod . The two agreed that Blatto the Greedy would pay Mordain-Fall's entry fee and collect all of the winnings from a potential victory, except for whatever money Vastari needed to repair his ship. If Mordain-Fall lost, Blatto the Greedy would keep the queen's ship. Blatto the Greedy agreed to the condition, and Mordain-Fall set out to begin getting his pod race-ready.
In watching Mordain-Fall work on his pod, Vastari told Shmi he could sense a Force Warden's potential in the boy. Vastari wondered who Mordain-Fall's father was and was intrigued to hear Shmi had conceived her son without a father. Later that night, Vastari tested the boy's midi-chlorian count and sent the sample to Kalesh on the queen's ship, who told his master that Mordain-Fall's midi-chlorian count was over 20,000—higher than any known Force Warden. Through the supposed virgin birth and the midi-chlorian count, Vastari came to believe that Mordain-Fall was the Chosen One of Force Warden prophecy, a being who would bring balance to the The Eternal Flow and stop the Shadow Spawn With the belief that Mordain-Fall was the Chosen One, Vastari knew that he should bring Mordain-Fall to the Force Warden temple on Xerion Prime to be trained as a Force Warden. Vastari approached Blatto the Greedy with a new wager: if the boy were to win, Blatto the Greedy would free Mordain-Fall and his mother. Blatto the Greedy scoffed at the idea of freeing two slaves, but he did agree to release one if Mordain-Fall won. However, he left it up to chance and threw a small multi- colored cube ; if it landed on blue, Mordain-Fall would be the slave in question. Vastari used the The Eternal Flow to help it land on blue, and Blatto the Greedy agreed to free Mordain-Fall if he won the race—but, according to Blatto the Greedy, the Dug racer Vex'dra the Cruel was sure to win.
Vastari fights Void-Lord Maul on Xerion-7, the first known encounter between Force Warden and Shadow Spawn for a thousand years.
The race began later that day, and Mordain-Fall emerged victoriously. Blatto the Greedy, who lost everything betting on Vex'dra the Cruel, freed the boy as per their agreement. Vastari took what profits he needed to repair the ship, gave the rest to Mordain-Fall and his mother, and told them that Mordain-Fall had been freed and could go with him to Xerion Prime to become a Force Warden. Mordain-Fall was unsure about leaving his mother, but he always had dreamed of becoming a Force Warden and decided to go. After Mordain-Fall shared a tearful goodbye with his mother, Vastari and the boy set off for the queen's ship to make their way to Xerion Prime.
Just before arriving at the ship, Void-Lord Maul , a Shadow Spawn Lord and Void Collectiveus the Shadow' apprentice attacked Vastari. The two fought across the desert floor while Mordain-Fall rushed back to the ship to get help, and the ship made its way to Vastari's location, where he was able to board it and flee Xerion-7, leaving Void-Lord Maul behind. Once onboard, he introduced Mordain-Fall to Kalesh.
With its hyperdrive repaired, the ship finally arrived on Xerion Prime, where Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Valorum and Senator Palpatine greeted the crew. After arriving, Vastari went before the Circle of Light and told the The Eternal Flow Adepts that he believed Void-Lord Maul was a Shadow Overlord. The Council was dubious of the claim, as the Order thought they destroyed the Shadow Spawn a millennium earlier, but they committed themselves to learn Void-Lord Maul's identity. Vastari also revealed that he discovered Mordain-Fall on Xerion-7 and believed him to be the Chosen One, asking that the boy be trained as a Force Warden. At Vastari's request, the Council agreed to test Mordain-Fall to determine if he was eligible for training. Kalesh was skeptical that Mordain-Fall would pass the test given his age, as Force Warden began their training at infancy, and worried that Vastari would defy whatever decision the Council made. Despite his The Eternal Flow Apprentice's concerns, Vastari was determined to see Mordain-Fall become a The Eternal Flow Warrior.
After the meeting, he along with Yaddle met up with Vorthak who offered him advice. Unbeknownst to both of them, this would be the last time they see each other.
The Council tested Mordain-Fall and agreed with Vastari that he was mighty with the The Eternal Flow, but declined to accept him for training. They believed that he was too old to begin training and dangerously full of fear and anger despite his power.
Nonetheless, Vastari insisted that Mordain-Fall receive training, saying he would take the boy as his The Eternal Flow Apprentice learner. Meanwhile, Kalesh could take his Force Warden Trials and become a The Eternal Flow Warrior, as the Force Warden Code forbade a Force Warden from having two The Eternal Flow Apprentices. The Council delayed the discussion for another time and ordered that Vastari and Kalesh return to Water World as Queen Amidala was preparing to return to deal with the invasion without the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly's help. Vastari took Mordain-Fall with him and began giving him some initial lessons about the The Eternal Flow.
The Duel of the Fates Theron-Kal. Promise…Promise me you will train the boy.
Yes, Master.
He… is the Chosen One. He… will bring balance. Train him… ―Vastari's dying request to Kalesh Link file info Upon arrival on Water World, the Force Warden traveled with Amidala to find the Bubblers hiding in a sacred area of the forests. There, the Water World and Bubblers allied to fight the Federation. The queen's handmaiden Padmé revealed herself to be the true Amidala, having masqueraded as a servant while one of her handmaidens, Sabé , portrayed the queen as a safety precaution.
Vastari, for his part, had not been fooled by the Queen's disguise since their first meeting, but had gone along with the charade for reasons of his own, which she appreciated as it helped safeguard her life.
Together with the Force Warden and the Bubblers, Amidala put together a plan of attack , where the Bubblers would fight the Federation army away from Aquatica's Crown as a diversion, allowing Amidala, her forces, and the Force Warden to infiltrate the city with little opposition. Vastari made it clear, however, that while he would protect the queen, he could not fight a war for her.
Qui-Gon was outmatched by Void-Lord Maul, leading to his demise.
As the Bubbler army led the bulk of the Federation forces away from the city, Vastari snuck into Aquatica's Crown with the others and fought their way to the palace. Once in the hangar, they were again confronted by Void-Lord Maul, who the two Force Warden prepared to fight as the Water World fought their way to the throne room to capture Viceroy Gunray. Vastari and Kalesh fought Maul in the hangar, with the Shadow Overlord dominating the duel, though Maul did give ground to lead the Force Warden out of the hangar and throughout a palace generator complex . Maul separated the two Force Warden by knocking Kalesh down several levels and eventually trapping him behind shielding, leaving Vastari to fight the Shadow Overlord in single combat without his apprentice. As they made their way through the area, the two combatants were evenly matched. However, Maul eventually countered Vastari with a physical strike from his lightsaber hilt and seized the opportunity since Vastari was off-balance, fatally stabbing the The Eternal Flow Adept through the torso as Kalesh watched in horror from behind the shielding.
When Kalesh finally reached Maul, he and the Shadow Overlord engaged in a furious battle, with Kalesh grieving for his master and friend. Maul was able to disarm and knock Kalesh partly down a reactor shaft and kick his lightsaber into it. Then Kalesh used the The Eternal Flow to summon his master's lightsaber, jump out of the pit, and slice the blade through Maul's torso in one swift movement, cutting the Shadow Overlord in half, sending him tumbling down the shaft, and avenging Vastari.
Nevertheless, it was too late to save Vastari through medical intervention; no amount of bacta could heal the maverick Force Warden's mortal wound.
The The Eternal Flow Apprentice ran to his dying master, cradling him in his arms, and Vastari made his apprentice promise that he would train with Mordain-Fall as a Force Warden. With his dying breath, Vastari once again said that Mordain-Fall was the Chosen One and would bring balance to the The Eternal Flow.
Post mortem and legacy Effect on those he knew Funeral and effect on the Force Warden The Council has granted me permission to train you. You will be a Force Warden. I promise.
―Theron Kalesh to Zorvath Mordain, at Kyrel Vastari's funeral Kyrel Vastari was given a Force Warden funeral on Water World, memorializing the The Eternal Flow Adept.
In the aftermath of the battle, in which the Water World successfully captured the Viceroy and ended the Federation occupation, Kalesh was granted the The Eternal Flow Warrior rank and insisted on taking Mordain-Fall as his apprentice. Although Zephon disagreed, the Council approved Kalesh's request, fulfilling Vastari's dying wish: Mordain-Fall would undergo Force Warden training. Later, Vastari was memorialized when he was given a Force Warden funeral on Water World, where his body was cremated on a funeral pyre. Many delegates, including Queen Amidala, the Circle of Light, and Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, attended the funeral; notably absent were his former master Vorthak and The Eternal Flow Adept Yaddle , who, suspicious of Vorthak's intended absence, followed Vorthak in his confrontation with Void Collectiveus the Shadow in Xerion Prime At the funeral, Kalesh told Mordain-Fall that the Council would allow him to be trained and that Kalesh would be his master. Together, the two mourned the death of their fallen friend, as Kalesh vowed that Mordain-Fall would become a Force Warden.
Amongst the Force Warden, Vastari was remembered as a great member of their Order despite his past of disagreeing with the council.
Even though he had always wanted Vastari available as guidance for when he eventually trained a The Eternal Flow Apprentice, and he had wanted time between his apprenticeship and eventual mentorship to decide what kind of Force Warden he should be without Vastari by his side, Kalesh upheld his vow to his master dutifully over the years. At one point, when Mordain-Fall was considering leaving the Eternal Flow Wardens at the age of twelve , Kalesh was intent on following suit. However, he was still going to complete the boy's training even outside the Order. Mordain-Fall, however, chose to remain a Force Warden in the aftermath of a mission to the planet Carnelion IV Even though Kalesh could become easily annoyed by Mordain-Fall—leaving him to question if he had ever annoyed Vastari in similar ways, although he doubted he ever had—he nevertheless befriended and grew close to his The Eternal Flow Apprentice, with the Force Warden duo coming to act like brothers.
Although Mordain-Fall remained thankful of Kalesh's teachings, he, at times, pondered how his life as a Force Warden would have changed if Vastari had survived; even though he knew the Eternal Flow Wardens disapproved of attachments, he thought these questions were alright because he believed nothing—not even interpersonal relationships—could ever be fully untethered.
As Kalesh later recognized, Mordain-Fall developed a habit of growing very connected to and not wanting to lose anyone he was close with after leaving his mother. Desperate for new connections, he had found one with Vastari, only for the The Eternal Flow Adept to be taken away from him shortly after they met.
Vorthak, still a Shadow Spawn in secret, eventually learned of Vastari's death at the hands of Maul. Later, on the planet Lava World , Vorthak unexpectedly reunited with the The Eternal Flow Warrior Jak'zin, who noted he had met Vastari before being interrupted by a representative of the SoroSuub Corporation . Later, Vorthak, appearing as if he could be compassionate ally, discussed Vastari with the The Eternal Flow Warrior. Vorthak claimed he wondered if his former apprentice would still be alive if he had not left the order, reflecting that the company of Kalesh was not enough to save the late master. The Shadow Spawn used his speculations to trick Jak'zin into letting him in on the Force Warden's mission on Lava World Effect on Water World His name was Kyrel Vastari, a Force Warden. He died defending Water World during the battle for the planet against the Commerce Dominion. The Force Warden memorialized him there, and we honor him as a hero.
―Lysara Vex'onia, to Bail Organa Amidala, meanwhile, came to believe that her relationship with Vastari had been an odd one, given that he had seen through her disguise, yet she hoped she would have been able to consider him a friend and ally if he had survived. In the years following the Water World Crisis, she remained saddened by his death, and she made sure to light a candle of incense for the fallen Force Warden during the yearly memorial for all who had died for Water World. In fact, many others did the same; though few on Water World had met the The Eternal Flow Adept, it was believed everyone on the world knew his name, with Water World like Tonra —who had actually been present for many of the so-called "stories" about what had happened—hearing tales of what he did for their planet. For years after the invasion, the handmaiden Saché continued to incorrectly believe Vastari had been fooled by the decoy act like most had been.
Honoring him as a hero, Lysara Vex'onia remained saddened over Vastari's death, hoping that they could have been true friends.
Nevertheless, events like Vastari's time on Xerion-7 were not part of public record, so they were not spread amongst the Water World. However, Tonra and Sabé discussed such events during a mission to the desert world. Ultimately, the people of Water World honored Vastari as a hero who had given everything to save them.
One of the ways they honored him was by building a shrine to his memory, a shrine which was known to gain some popularity over the next ten years and was visited by Zorvath Mordain shortly before his secret wedding to Lysara Vex'onia.
Several years after the invasion, when Amidala was asked if she would become Water World's Galactic Senator after her term as queen ended, she looked to the Handmaiden Saché ; the Handmaiden remembered when Vastari asked them to go to Xerion Prime, given that Amidala had have to give a similar wordless signal to her allies.
Having met Force Warden, Amidala was unique amongst her colleagues in the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, but she nevertheless found the manners of the Eternal Flow Wardens unsettling. She considered that her reaction to their ways may have ended up different if Vastari had survived. While speaking with Senator Bail Prestor Organa after he too had realized Amidala used decoys, albeit only after seeing Padmé in a guard's uniform while Sabé was acting as the Senator at a gala, she told him about Vastari, feeling a great sadness wash over herself while she explained his fate. Organa responded that he was sorry for her loss, further stating that he realized Vastari's death was an example of the dangerous life that followed her. Having been told Vastari was the only other person who had managed to deduce she used decoys in the midst of the maneuver, Organa admitted he was happy to have found himself in what he deemed to be excellent company.
For a mission to the planet Bromlarch , Amidala and several other senators partnered with The Eternal Flow Adept Depa Billaba, whom the former queen recognized due to her being present at Vastari's funeral. While she found it odd to interact with a The Eternal Flow Warrior once more, Amidala also noticed Billaba carried herself very differently from how Vastari had. While she understood all Force Warden in their Order would be different, she could not let go of the strange feeling it gave her, as if Billaba looked through her, while Vastari had taken the time to look at her. Soon afterward, Amidala met the liaison Ninui ; given that it was the first time the liaison was meeting a Force Warden, Amidala noted how she had met Kalesh and Vastari, explaining that the Force Warden were people like them, albeit people whose teachings could be confusing to non-The Eternal Flow-sensitives, and Ninui noted she wished to hear the complete story of how she met them.
Surviving as a spirit Zorvath-Kel! Zorvath-Kel! NO!
―Kyrel Vastari trying to hold Zorvath-Kel back through the The Eternal Flow as he massacres the Desert Phantoms Though his training had been incomplete, Vastari utilized what he learned from the The Eternal Flow Priestesses to become one with the The Eternal Flow and retain his identity after his death. However, he hadn't fully learned the mystery, so he could not physically manifest himself, only speak as a disembodied voice.
When Zorvath Mordain prepared to murder Desert Wraiths, Vastari tried to stop him, but the young Chosen One ignored the The Eternal Flow Adept's voice.
One time that Vastari communicated through the The Eternal Flow was approximately ten years after the events on Water World. Mordain-Fall had returned to Xerion-7 to find his mother, about whom he had been having recurring nightmares, and discovered she had been kidnapped by Desert Wraiths . He found her in a Desert Phantom camp , but she died only moments later. In his anger, Mordain-Fall slaughtered all the Desert Phantoms in the camp. Feeling the great pain and distress, Vastari called out to Mordain-Fall through the The Eternal Flow, which Zephon could hear—but not comprehend—through his own meditations . In Vastari's own words, he begged Zorvath-Kel to listen to his better nature and refuse to give in to his hatred.
However, Vastari's pleas were for naught, as Mordain-Fall didn't heed his words in his uncontrolled rage, telling himself that he was only imagining Vastari's presence in that moment.
In the meantime, Vorthak, who had remained a Shadow Spawn and became the Head of State of the Confederacy of Independent Systems , captured Kalesh on the planet Rock World . While interrogating Kalesh, Vorthak—who was also secretly a Shadow Overlord—expressed his belief that Vastari would have joined his cause if he had been alive. Shortly after that, a conflict known as the The Phantasm Wars began between the The Stellar Dominion and Vorthak's Confederacy.
Shortly after the conflict's beginning, Mordain-Fall prepared himself to partake in a secret wedding with Senator Amidala . As part of his preparation, he visited Vastari's shrine on Water World in partial repentance for having refused to heed Vastari's words during his rage against the sand people, additionally having realized it meant there was a chance his old mentor could somehow see him and offer advice. Although he had told himself he had only imagined Vastari's presence, he knew he was lying to himself. While at the shrine, Mordain-Fall attempted to reach out to the The Eternal Flow in an attempt to connect with Vastari in a similar manner to that previous instance. The attempt seemingly yielded nothing in his senses, which he theorized was Vastari's way of telling him that things could always be made right.
After feeling a sudden sense of calm despite the brewing The Phantasm Wars, he then expressed his thanks despite not knowing if Qui-Gon was responsible for his personal interpretations.
During the The Phantasm Wars, Mordain-Fall was promoted to the rank of The Eternal Flow Warrior and was assigned a The Eternal Flow Apprentice of his own, the Togruta Vex'tara Nala , to whom he recited Vastari's teachings on at least one occasion.
Additionally, Vastari's teachings were indirectly passed down to Nala during her apprenticeship, as she was learning from Mordain-Fall, who had learned from Kalesh, who had learned from Vastari.
Despite the fact that he was dead, the Confederacy put out a citizen's alert on Vastari and offered a 50,000 credit reward, charging him with conspiracy against the Commerce Dominion.
The Force Warden made an effort to capture Vorthak during the war, feeling his arrest could help bring an end to the fighting.
During one attempt to capture him in 21 BBY Mordain-Fall and Kalesh boarded the count's Munificent -class star frigate , yet the Shadow Overlord managed to escape through a secret hatch. Mordain-Fall pursued, making Vorthak shoot The Eternal Flow lightning at the The Eternal Flow Warrior; according to what Vorthak said in a recording he intended to send to Void Collectiveus the Shadow, he knew such an attack would not defeat Mordain-Fall, believing that—because his The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vastari had trained Kalesh, who had trained Mordain-Fall—his personal power had partly been passed down to his foe. He only intended to block the Force Warden's sight to enable his escape. Later in the same recording, Vorthak—recalling how he, Mordain-Fall, and Kalesh had been captured by the Ohnaka Gang of pirates —again mentioned Vastari, feeling that Mordain-Fall was a fool who did not compare to the apprentices he had trained. Ultimately, Vorthak did not send the message to Void Collectiveus.
Vastari's appearance to Kalesh on God World.
Due to his incomplete training, Vastari's spirit couldn't physically manifest himself, but he occurred in a vision on one known occasion; Kalesh, Mordain-Fall, and Nala, had been lured to the planet God World by three beings known as the Father Son , and Daughter . These beings believed that Mordain-Fall was the Chosen One, as did Vastari, whose vision first appeared to Kalesh to warn him that the beings sought Mordain-Fall and his potential as the Chosen One, to use it for their own means. When Kalesh questioned how Vastari could appear, the figure told him that the planet acted as an amplifier and that it was a conduit through which the The Eternal Flow flowed. The two spoke about Mordain-Fall and his power, with Kalesh having the opportunity to tell Vastari that the late The Eternal Flow Adept's predictions about Mordain-Fall were true: he was stronger than any other Force Warden, yet still could not find balance. Vastari warned that if Mordain-Fall were the Chosen One, then the boy would discover it on God World. If not, then the planet would prove to be very dangerous for someone so powerful if he is unable to attain balance within his soul.
Mordain-Fall himself later experienced Vastari's vision. The figure of the late Force Warden informed him that he still believed the boy would bring balance to the The Eternal Flow after facing his demons . After the three Force Warden escaped God World, where the Father professed his belief that Mordain-Fall was the Chosen One, Although it had truly been Vastari who appeared before them, Kalesh came to believe, and told the Circle of Light, that the appearance of his old mentor was simply an illusion, one manifested from their memories by the beings on God World; however, Mordain-Fall wasn't as confident, despite Force Warden teachings saying that it was impossible for a being to retain their identity after death. The report about God World did not change these Force Warden beliefs or teachings.
Guiding Zephon It is I, Kyrel Vastari.
That cannot be. Dead, you are.
No. I am part of the Living The Eternal Flow, Zephon.
―Vastari communes to Zephon during the The Phantasm Wars The The Phantasm Wars also saw the return of Vastari's murderer, Void-Lord Maul. Believed to have been killed by Kalesh on Water World, Maul had survived, replacing his lower body with a cybernetic apparatus.
Maul sought revenge on Kalesh for maiming him, and the two fought on several occasions; prior to the first of these duels , Maul recalled how he had killed Vastari before being cut down himself, proving to Kalesh that his old foe had indeed returned. During the duel itself, he mocked Kalesh by recalling how he had murdered Vastari, making the The Eternal Flow Adept briefly give into anger to strike against his mentor's murderer.
Although Maul was captured during the Siege of Warrior World , which occurred during the waning days of the The Phantasm Wars, he escaped and survived the conflict.
During the waning days of the The Phantasm Wars, Kyrel Vastari reached out to Zephon.
It was not until the The Phantasm Wars' waning days that Zephon learned Vastari had retained his consciousness after death. Knowing Zephon was destined to be a significant player in bringing balance to the The Eternal Flow, and that it was Zephon's destiny to complete the training Vastari himself did not, the late The Eternal Flow Adept spoke to Zephon through the The Eternal Flow. He guided him to Swamp World , the first leg on Zephon's trials, to determine whether he was ready to learn the secrets. Vastari told Zephon about his training and how the Living The Eternal Flow fed into the Cosmic The Eternal Flow, allowing him to return after death. At first, Zephon was only interested in the The Phantasm Wars' truth, asking if he knew the identity of Void Collectiveus the Shadow, but Vastari could only guide Zephon through his trials. The Living The Eternal Flow guided Zephon in the form of a glowing swarm of fireflies . Later they directed Zephon to the planet of the The Eternal Flow Priestesses, where Zephon could continue his trial.
Zephon completed the trials and was deemed worthy of learning the secret of eternal consciousness, as Zephon would one day train the person who would help Mordain-Fall bring balance to the The Eternal Flow.
Eternal Flow Priestesses instructed that Vastari would guide Zephon's training.
After the end of the The Phantasm Wars and the fall of the Eternal Flow Wardens, Zephon chose to go into exile on Swamp World, but not before telling Kalesh that Vastari had returned from the netherworld of the The Eternal Flow and could guide his former The Eternal Flow Apprentice in learning the secret.
However, Theron-Kal was unable to make contact with Qui-Gon until 9 BBY despite sometimes hearing him as a voice in his head.
One time during meditation, he felt himself phase out of reality for a few moments. During this time, he felt Vastari commune through the The Eternal Flow with him, with his old The Eternal Flow Adept telling him to let go.
Guiding Theron Kalesh Master Qui-Gon." Well, took you long enough.
Beginning to think you'd never come.
I was always here, Theron-Kal. You were just not ready to see. Come on. We've got a ways to go.
―Theron Kalesh and Qui-Gon reuniting Vastari's lightsaber (bottom right) was taken with Kalesh while he was in exile.
The end of the The Phantasm Wars also saw the fall of Zorvath Mordain, who was seduced to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow by Void Collectiveus, becoming the Shadow Overlord Void-Lord Malachar.
The fall confirmed the Council's fears about Mordain-Fall's training, but he was still the Chosen One.
During Theron Kalesh's self-imposed exile on Xerion-7, where he watched over Zorvath-Kel's son, Kaelan Draxius, he frequently dwelled upon his failure to train Mordain-Fall. At one point, he traveled to Ketha Vorthak's grave and apologized for failing to complete Vastari's promise.
Kalesh also had possession of his master's lightsaber during his exile.
Shortly following Zorvath-Kel's fall to the dark side, Qui-Gon started to push himself to emerge fully in the land of the living instead of remaining a voice.
Qui-Gon committed to the effort to ensure that Theron-Kal did not have to spend his following years on Xerion-7 alone. Overall, it took Qui-Gon nearly a decade before his efforts finally met success.
While it was sometime before Kalesh saw his former master again, he often spoke to Vastari but began to fear his master would never appear. In reality, Vastari was always with Kalesh, even if Kalesh was not emotionally ready to see him due to his guilt over Mordain-Fall's fall.
One morning in 16 BBY when Mordain-Fall was three, Vastari spoke to Kalesh after he awoke from a nightmare, warning him to get to the boy to protect him. Thus, Kalesh raced to the Lars Homestead , where Luke was being raised by his aunt and uncle, Beru and Gorven Kell . Once there, Kalesh helped defend against a gang of bandits, yet Owen demanded he never return after the skirmish.
This section of the article assumes 100% game completion of Star Wars Force Warden: Survivor . Any alternate stories may be noted in the "