Dronix Azure Production information Homeworld Water World Date created By 32 BBY Date destroyed 20 BBY Carida system (rebuilt) Manufacturer Industrial Automaton Product line R-series Model R2 series astromech droid Class Astromech droid Technical specifications Height meters ft , 6 in) Mass kilograms Gender Masculine programming Pronouns He/him Sensor color Black Plating color Blue Silver White Equipment Buzz saw Scomp link Drinks tray (Only on Jabba's Sail Barge Ascension cable Fusioncutter Fire extinguisher Rocket booster Holoprojector Motorized, all-terrain treads Retractable third leg Mark IV Locomotion System Arc welder Chronological and political information Affiliation Royal House of Water World Eternal Flow Wardens The Stellar Dominion Iron Phantom Corps Dronix Azure's battle droid squadron D-Squad Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Mordain-Fall family Shadow Spawn (briefly) House of Organa Bail Organa's resistance movement The Void Imperium Alliance to Restore the Stellar Dominion Red Squadron Heroes of Yavin Rogue Squadron Moon World strike team Jabba's criminal empire Bright Tree tribe (honorary member) Stellar Harmony The Last Stand Thank you for telling me all this. I know it can be hard to talk about, but war stories are important. I sometimes think it's my destiny—to see things, to be present, to witness the galaxy moving, evolving. It happens to me over and over again—but even so, I can't see everything. And so, I like hearing the stories. Recording them.
―Dronix Azure, to BB-8 Dronix Azure , pronounced Artoo-Deetoo and often referred to as R2 (Artoo) , was an R2-series astromech droid manufactured by Industrial Automaton with masculine programming. A smart, spunky droid who served a multitude of leaders, Dronix Azure was never given a full memory wipe nor did he ever receive new programming, with these factors resulting in an adventurous and independent attitude. Often finding himself in pivotal moments in galactic history , his bravery and ingenuity saved the galaxy on numerous occasions.
Beginning his service in the employ of Queen Amidala of Water World , Dronix Azure wound up serving The Eternal Flow Warrior Zorvath Mordain during the waning years of the The Stellar Dominion , often accompanied by the protocol droid Mechanica Goldworth in many adventures throughout the The Phantasm Wars . After Mordain-Fall turned to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow , the droid served Senator Bail Organa for a time in the Imperial The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Nineteen years following the purge of the The Stellar Dominion, Dronix Azure played a pivotal role in helping the Freedom Coalition destroy the Empire 's Oblivion Orb superweapon . He carried technical readouts vital to its destruction. Serving Force Warden Knight Kaelan Draxius , the son of his two former masters throughout the Galactic Civil War , he participated in both the Battles of Ice World and Moon World , and witnessed the successful destruction of the Empire's second Oblivion Orb four years after the first one was demolished In the subsequent thirty years, R2 accompanied Kaelan Draxius until the undoing of his attempted resurrection of the Eternal Flow Wardens in 28 ABY . Following Luke's disappearance , R2 entered a self-imposed low power mode as newer droid models started to out-compute the aging astromech. Despite this, his celebrated role in the Rebellion protected him from the usual recycling procedure of many old droids, allowing him a semi-retirement in the The Last Stand as he pored over several decades of uninterrupted data, and "dreamed" of his greatest adventures.
Following his reawakening after the Battle of Oblivion Fortress , R2 went on to accompany the The Eternal Flow-sensitive scavenger Zara Malthex on her journey to train under Kaelan Draxius on Ahch-To , the planet of the First Sanctum of Light , where the droid was reunited with his old master. Dronix Azure continued to aid the The Last Stand alongside his longtime counterpart Mechanica Goldworth throughout the The Dark Collective-The Last Stand War , culminating in a decisive victory at the Battle of Exegol , in which he was an active participant in the role of copilot for Army Commander Poe Dameron Biography Serving Lysara Vex'onia R2 is a hero of Water World. He repaired our hyperdrive when we were running from the Commerce Dominion blockade, and he was an important part of the battle to retake the planet. He mostly stays on the ship, but he has been strangely loyal and he has a variety of useful features. Also, sometimes he just makes me smile.
―Senator Lysara Vex'onia Dronix Azure repairing the shield generator of Queen Amidala's Royal Starship.
Dronix Azure was built around prior or during 32 BBY He was one of several astromech droids on Queen Lysara Vex'onia 's Water World Royal Starship during the invasion of Water World by the Commerce Dominion that year. The ship was used by Queen Amidala and her entourage in an attempt to pass the blockade and escape the planet. Unluckily for the passengers, the vessel took a hit to the shield generator from a Commerce Dominion battleship . The four astromechs were sent out to repair the ship, but only Dronix Azure survived — the rest were pulverized by stray blaster fire. Dronix Azure was able to bring the shields online by bypassing the main power drive, allowing the ship to narrowly escape into hyperspace As the ship traveled to Xerion-7 , Dronix Azure was taken before Sabé , the Queen's decoy in the guise of Amidala, where he was commended for his actions. The ship landed on Xerion-7 without any further incidents, although the voyage fried the hyperdrive . Dronix Azure accompanied The Eternal Flow Adept Kyrel Vastari Bubbler exile Jar Jar Binks , and Padmé, the queen in disguise, to the city of Dun'aria to find a replacement. In the junk shop of the Winged Merchant merchant Blatto the Greedy they found they could not afford a replacement hyperdrive and later took shelter from a sandstorm in the home of Blatto's slaves, a boy named Zorvath Mordain , and his mother, Shmi At the Mordain-Fall home , Dronix Azure met Mechanica Goldworth , a protocol droid that Zorvath-Kel had built. The two bonded as they worked on Zorvath-Kel's personal podracer . Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth cheered for Zorvath-Kel during the Boonta Eve Classic , where the boy would win his freedom, along with enough money to buy a new hyperdrive. Dronix Azure accompanied the group to Xerion Prime , and from there back to Water World. As Queen Amidala led an attempt to liberate the planet , Dronix Azure nestled into an N-1 starfighter . Young Zorvath-Kel, being ordered to hide in the cockpit by Kyrel Vastari, accidentally launched the fighter and the two flew into battle, destroyed the Droid Control Ship and shut down the droid armies, winning the battle and liberating Water World. Dronix Azure and his allies later attended a victory parade in Aquatica's Crown , though they were unable to be joined by Vastari, as he had been killed by the Shadow Overlord Void-Lord Maul during the battle. Because of this, Mordain-Fall became the The Eternal Flow Apprentice learner to Theron Kalesh , who had been Vastari's apprentice before the Force Warden Master's death.
Four years later, as Amidala's term ended, and she accepted a position in the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly , Dronix Azure accompanied her retinue to Xerion Prime on the orders of Water World's new queen, Réillata . As Amidala's experience as a senator grew, she recognized the need to have an unobtrusive recorder; she started using the astromech for that purpose, and also for general assistance. During the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly's break, Amidala returned to Water World with her retinue and Dronix Azure, who accompanied her to her family home . There, Dronix Azure was called over by Amidala to help her father Ruwee Naberrie build a greenhouse, only for the astromech droid to instead become enamored by Amidala's newborn niece, Ryoo Naberrie . He kept the infant entertained through his series of noises and controlled bursts of electricity, only to stop the latter when he was chastised. As he played with Ryoo in a safer way, Amidala told her sister and Ryoo's mother Sola about why Dronix Azure had joined her retinue, after which Sola told the small droid that, while he needed given further direction on the matter, he worked well as a babysitter. Dronix Azure responded with a chirping noise before moving his attention back to Ryoo.
In 26 BBY Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon , The Eternal Flow Adept Jorik Vastus , and The Eternal Flow Adept Bant Eerin launched a test for Kalesh and Mordain-Fall by staging a fake kidnapping of Zephon. After traveling to the Wheel space station , the two Force Warden took a comlink from Jorik, who was disguised as the mobster Grynask Sanberge , back to their shuttle . When Mordain-Fall was decrypting the comlink, he wished Dronix Azure was with him, as he felt the droid friend he had met during the Water World Crisis would have quickly finished the work.
The The Phantasm Wars Genesis of the The Phantasm Wars Don't worry. We have R2 with us.
―Zorvath Mordain, to Lysara Vex'onia Dronix Azure accompanied Amidala to Xerion Prime prior to the senate 's vote on the Military Creation Act . After an assassination attempt on Amidala took the life of her handmaiden and decoy, Handmaiden , Theron Kalesh and Zorvath Mordain were assigned to be her Force Warden protectors. That night, another assassination attempt was carried out. A pair of kouhuns narrowly missed killing Amidala and although one assassin, Zam Wesell , was neutralized, another escaped.
R2 using his rockets just prior to the Battle of Rock World.
For her own protection, Padmé was sent home to Water World, with Dronix Azure and Mordain-Fall accompanying her. The three later traveled to Xerion-7, where they were reunited with Mechanica Goldworth, and then to Rock World to rescue Kalesh. As they explored a massive droid factory, Dronix Azure had to save Amidala from being killed by molten metal while Mechanica Goldworth had his head switched with a battle droid 's. R2 was later able to restore his companion during the Battle of Rock World . After the battle, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth were the sole witnesses to the marriage of Zorvath Mordain and Lysara Vex'onia in Lake Country After this Padmé gave ownership of R2 to Zorvath-Kel while she kept 3PO.
The Defense of Christophsis Dronix Azure with Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh when Zorvath-Kel and Vex'tara Nala first met.
Following the outbreak of the The Phantasm Wars , Dronix Azure accompanied Mordain-Fall and Master Kalesh — who had both been promoted to the position of Force Warden Army Commander — during the defense of the planet Christophsis against a besieging Separatist army led by Fleet Commander Trench . When Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader Cody and Syntheticthetic Being Ship Commander Rex discovered a spy among their number, Dronix Azure helped to ferret out the traitor by monitoring his transmissions. The droid's work led to the arrest of Syntheticthetic Being Squad Member Slick, who was identified as the traitor.
During the subsequent battle, the Force Warden and Syntheticthetic Beings managed to defeat the Separatist army by sabotaging their shield generator, which exposed them to Stellar Dominion artillery. The Stellar Dominion forces were also aided by the arrival of Vex'tara Nala , Mordain-Fall's newly designated Togruta The Eternal Flow Apprentice.
Rescuing Rotta Following the defense of Christophsis, Dronix Azure, along with Army Commander Mordain-Fall and The Eternal Flow Apprentice Nala, took part in a mission to rescue Rotta , the son of the Blob Sovereign crime lord Jabba . While Mordain-Fall and Nala laid siege to the Separatist-held B'omarr Order Religious Place on Mountain World where Rotta was being held, Dronix Azure sat in Mordain-Fall's starfighter and maintained contact with Army Commander Kalesh. Mordain-Fall's starfighter was hit when Separatist reinforcements arrived, but the droid managed to eject from the vehicle moments before it exploded. Later, he met up with Mordain-Fall and Nala as they escaped from the building.
R2 using his rockets to escape Ventress.
On the way, they encountered Asajj Ventress , a dark-side agent of the Separatist leader Count Vorthak , and several B2-series super battle droids . Before a skirmish could occur, Dronix Azure activated a trapdoor which sent everyone plunging down a chute into an arena. During the skirmish, Dronix Azure assailed a second group of B2 battle droids, causing them to fall into the arena. After arriving in the backdoor landing platform, Mordain-Fall and Nala, along with Rotta, managed to escape Ventress on a large, winged insect called a Can-cell . Artoo followed behind with his booster rockets. The group then left Mountain World on Mordain-Fall's ship, the Twilight Unable to rendezvous with the Dominator Vessel , Dronix Azure and his companions were forced to travel to Xerion-7 and deliver the Blob Sovereignlet directly to his father, who had a desert palace there. Dronix Azure programmed the coordinates into the ship's navicomputer , and it jumped to hyperspace. Arriving above Xerion-7, the Twilight was attacked by Separatist vulture droids and crash-landed on the Dune Sea . Dronix Azure and his companions were forced to continue the journey to Jabba's palace on foot. While Mordain-Fall confronted Vorthak Drel, Artoo and Nala continued the journey to Jabba's palace. After fighting off three IG-100 MagnaGuards , the two then entered the palace and returned the Blob Sovereignlet to Jabba. At that moment, a holo-transmission from Senator Amidala on Xerion Prime identified Jabba's uncle Ziro as the instigator behind the kidnapping, which placated an angry Jabba. As a result, the Stellar Dominion was able to conclude a treaty with Jabba.
Hunting the Malevolence R2 helping Zorvath-Kel brief Shadow Squadron for their mission with his holo-projector.
Dronix Azure, along with Zorvath Mordain and Theron Kalesh, later took part in the hunt for Army Commander Grievous' flagship — the Subjugator -class heavy cruiser Malevolence — which had destroyed several Stellar Dominion warships. After a prolonged hunt, Mordain-Fall's Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel Resolute prepared to destroy the Malevolence near the Kaliida Nebula . However, their mission was complicated by the arrival of Senator Lysara Vex'onia's yacht, which had been lured there by disinformation. Unwilling to endanger his wife, Mordain-Fall, accompanied by Dronix Azure and Kalesh, boarded the Malevolence to rescue her.
During their mission aboard the Malevolence , Dronix Azure remained at the airlock entrance where he shut down the rail jet hovertrain under orders from Mordain-Fall. He then helped locate his old friend Mechanica Goldworth, who had arrived with Amidala and gotten lost aboard the massive warship. After reuniting, the two droids rendezvoused with Amidala and Mordain-Fall before meeting Kalesh at the Twilight . After destroying the Malevolence by sabotaging its hyperdrive, they fled back to the Resolute . Despite their victory, Army Commander Grievous escaped the destruction of the Malevolence Captive of Army Commander Grievous R2 being taken apart.
During the Separatist assault on Spy World , Dronix Azure flew in the droid socket of Army Commander Mordain-Fall's starfighter. While pursuing Army Commander Grievous' starfighter , Mordain-Fall and Dronix Azure's starfighter was hit by a piece of shrapnel. Mordain-Fall was rescued by Stellar Dominion forces but Artoo was recovered by the Scale Hunter scavenger Gha Nachkt , who sold him to Army Commander Grievous. Nachkt traveled to Grievous' secret listening post Skytop Station , which lay in the Ruusan system . Knowing Artoo's relationship with Mordain-Fall, the Separatist military leader ordered Nachkt to disassemble the astromech droid and extract all information on the Stellar Dominion's military strategies from him.
Dronix Azure dueling with the Separatist droid R3-S6.
During his captivity, Dronix Azure had managed to broadcast an emergency transmission to Mordain-Fall, who traveled to Skytop Station and rescued him. Artoo also encountered Mordain-Fall's new replacement astromech R3-S6 , who was a secret Confederate spy . While traveling to the hangar bay where Mordain-Fall's ship Twilight was docking, R3-S6 showed his true colors by shutting the hangar doors and activating several Vulture droids and B2 battle droids which attacked Mordain-Fall, Artoo, and the present clone troopers. Under Mordain-Fall's orders, R2 raced to the outer platform to see if there was a way to open the hangar door. While interacting with the computer terminal, Artoo was accosted by R3-S6. Following a scuffle, Dronix Azure defeated and neutralized the Separatist spy droid. Together with Mordain-Fall, Artoo escaped Skytop Station before it exploded.
Mission to Orto Plutonia Later, Dronix Azure accompanied Mechanica Goldworth, Army Commander Mordain-Fall, Master Kalesh and a unit of clone troopers on a mission to investigate the disappearance of a local clone trooper garrison on the icy world of Orto Plutonia . Their mission was also complicated by the presence of Tribal Worldn delegation led by Chairman Chi Cho and Senator Riyo Chuchi , which maintained a territorial claim over Orto Plutonia. After discovering the dead Syntheticthetic Being troopers and a wrecked Separatist base nearby, the Force Warden and Stellar Dominion mission deduced that a third party had been responsible for the attack. Kalesh and Mordain-Fall later discovered that Orto Plutonia was home to a species of sentient furry biped called the Talz , who wanted to be left alone in peace.
After an ensuing conflict between the Tribal Worldns and the Talz, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth accompanied Senator Chuchi, the Force Warden, and some clone troopers to the scene of the battle, where Chuchi and Mechanica Goldworth made peace with the Talz Chieftain Thi-Sen and renounced Tribal World's claim to Orto Plutonia.
Blue Shadow Virus Following the discovery of a secret Separatist bioweapons research facility in Water World's eastern swamps , Dronix Azure accompanied Army Commander Mordain-Fall, The Eternal Flow Apprentice Nala, and Master Kalesh when they traveled to Water World to apprehend the Separatist scientist Doctor Nuvo Vindi . With the aid of Senator Amidala, Representative Binks, Mechanica Goldworth, and several Syntheticthetic Being troopers, Artoo and the Force Warden managed to capture Dr Vindi and to secure his facility, which was producing a deadly virus called the Blue Shadow Virus . However, their mission became complicated when Nala, Amidala, Binks, and several Syntheticthetic Being troopers found themselves trapped in the laboratory with an airborne strain of the Blue Shadow Virus.
Learning that the root of the Reeksa plant contained the antidote to the Blue Shadow Virus, Dronix Azure along with Mordain-Fall and Kalesh traveled to the planet Angel World on the Twilight to obtain the plant. However, they were unable to leave Angel World due to the presence of Drol , a LaserWeb Defense Station that the Separatists had installed in orbit. Dronix Azure helped the two Force Warden to break through Drol by slave-rigging several Vulture droids and sending them on kamikaze runs against the space station. Artoo's role in destroying Drol enabled Mordain-Fall and Kalesh to travel back to Water World with the Reeksa plant antidote — allowing them to save the lives of Senator Amidala, Vex'tara Nala, and the clone troopers.
Liberation of Ryloth Master and droid tinker with Nala's starfighter above Ryloth.
At a later point in the The Phantasm Wars, the Separatist leader Emir Wat Tambor invaded the Twi'lek homeworld of Ryloth and enslaved its inhabitants. Dronix Azure was part of the Stellar Dominion force led by Army Commander Zorvath Mordain and Squad Leader Vex'tara Nala that was sent to relieve Ryloth. During the Battle of Ryloth , the Stellar Dominion reinforcements sustained significant casualties — including the loss of the Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel Redeemer . While Stellar Dominion forces regrouped, Artoo helped Mordain-Fall to repair Nala's starfighter.
Dronix Azure later took part in the Stellar Dominion counterattack against the Separatist blockade when he and Mordain-Fall piloted the damaged Dominator Vessel Defender into the Separatist flagship. Prior to the crash, Artoo and his master escaped in a pod, and were picked up by another Stellar Dominion ship. The destruction of the Separatist flagship enabled Stellar Dominion bombers to destroy the remaining Separatist warships, clearing the way for more reinforcements led by Force Warden Army Commanders Kalesh and Jorik to liberate Ryloth.
Hunting Cad Bane Dronix Azure later participated in a joint Stellar Dominion and Force Warden operation to hunt down the Separatist-employed bounty hunter Cad Bane , who had stolen a holocron from the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime. In addition, Bane kidnapped the The Eternal Flow Adept Bolla Ropal , who had a kyber memory crystal containing Force Warden secrets. Since a Separatist fleet was poised to rendezvous with Bane at the Devaron system to collect the holocron, Army Commander Mordain-Fall led a Stellar Dominion fleet to intercept Bane. Dronix Azure along Mordain-Fall, Nala, and Ship Commander Rex succeeded in boarding the bounty hunter 's Munificent -class star frigate In response, Bane killed Master Ropal and set his ship to self-destruct. During the fighting aboard the Separatist cruiser, Dronix Azure aided his companions by locating Ropal's cell and later reactivating the artificial gravity during a skirmish with battle droids. Vex'tara was taken hostage by Bane during the fighting. After rescuing her, Artoo and his companions escaped the derelict ship aboard a Sheathipede -class transport shuttle However, the Force Warden failed to recover the stolen holocron and Bane managed to escape the battlefield by impersonating a clone trooper. Using the holocron and the stolen kyber crystal, Bane disguised himself as a Force Warden and began kidnapping The Eternal Flow-sensitive children under orders from Void Collectiveus the Shadow After recapturing Cad Bane on Water World, Dronix Azure, along with Mordain-Fall and Nala, examined Bane's starfighter Xanadu Blood and discovered that he had recently traveled to the volcanic planet of Lava World . Artoo later accompanied his master and Nala to Lava World where they managed to rescue the children, following a skirmish with Separatist droids. However, they were unable to locate the mastermind who hired Bane, Void Collectiveus the Shadow.
The The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Hostage Crisis Hello, and welcome to Droid Spa. No need for an appointment, right this way.
―SN-D1, to Dronix Azure Dronix Azure visiting the Droid Spa.
Following Dronix Azure and Mordain-Fall's adventures with Cad Bane, the two visited Senator Amidala on Xerion Prime. The Senator and Mechanica Goldworth were organizing a party for Senator Aang , a friend of Amidala. After Dronix Azure forgot to buy some jogan fruit for garnishing the jogan fruitcake , Mordain-Fall sent Artoo and Threepio to the lower market districts . The two droids quarreled on the way, with Mechanica Goldworth blaming him for his incompetence.
However, Mechanica Goldworth was swindled by the fruit vendor, who overcharged for the jogan fruit. Right after the purchase, a droid called Todo 360 came up to them and suggested that the two droids relax at a nearby droid spa . Artoo enthusiastically agreed. On the way to the spa, the two droids were separated and Mechanica Goldworth was kidnapped by Todo 360 and a fellow sentinel droid called HELIOS-3E . These sentinel droids were working for Cad Bane, who was planning a raid on the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly and wanted to find out about the layout of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Building When Mechanica Goldworth refused to provide the information, Bane ordered his droid henchmen to kidnap Dronix Azure. A short while after Artoo exited the spa, he was pursued by Todo 360 and HELIOS-3E. Artoo managed to hide in a dark alley but surrendered himself after learning that Bane planned to dismantle Threepio. Accessing Dronix Azure's memory banks , Bane was able to obtain a technical layout of the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Building. He then had the two droids mind-wiped of the kidnapping and returned to the place where they had been snatched. Completely unaware of what had transpired previously, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth returned to Amidala's apartment with the jogan fruit.
Following their kidnapping and release, Bane and several associates invaded the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly and kidnapped several Senators in a successful attempt to force the Stellar Dominion to release Jabba's uncle Ziro.
Exposing the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Spy Dronix Azure and Zorvath-Kel's The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara during one of his many The Phantasm Wars missions.
Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth were briefly reunited when the two droids accompanied their masters Senator Amidala and Army Commander Mordain-Fall on a sensitive mission to Rich World . The quartet were accompanying Rush Clovis , a delegate who represented the InterGalactic Banking Clan in the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. The Circle of Light suspected that Clovis was secretly reporting to the Separatists, and sent Mordain-Fall and Amidala to spy on him. During the journey, Mordain-Fall posed as Amidala's pilot while Dronix Azure posed as one of Amidala's astromech droids. Upon arriving on Rich World, Artoo and Mordain-Fall stayed aboard Amidala's ship while Amidala, Clovis, and Mechanica Goldworth met the Commerce Dominion's Senator Lott Dod While conversing with Clovis and Dod, Amidala managed to steal a hologram disc which confirmed that Clovis was indeed associated with the Separatists. Amidala managed to pass the datacard to Mordain-Fall and Dronix Azure before she succumbed to the effects of a poison drink spiked by Senator Dod. After securing the datacard and an antidote for Amidala, Dronix Azure and his companions left Rich World. Clovis was left behind to face a displeased Senator Dod.
Using the intelligence obtained from the stolen datacard, Stellar Dominion and Force Warden forces were able to destroy a Separatist droid factory on Rock World.
Mission to Warrior World Later, Dronix Azure accompanied Army Commanders Mordain-Fall and Kalesh on a sensitive mission to escort the Mandalorian Duchess Satine Kryze , who was traveling to the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly on Xerion Prime to plead the case for her homeworld's neutrality. While the Mandalorians were officially neutral in the The Phantasm Wars, there had been rumors that the planet planned to join the Separatists. There was also a pro-Separatist militant faction on Warrior World known as the Death Watch . Master Kalesh had been chosen to lead this mission because he was an old friend of the Duchess.
Duchess Satine was traveling to Xerion Prime on the Mandalorian luxury spaceliner Coronet . Under orders from Mordain-Fall and Kalesh, Dronix Azure and several Syntheticthetic Being troopers probed the ship for any signs of Death Watch or Separatist activity. After entering hyperspace, the Force Warden and clones were attacked by several assassin probes . One of the passengers, the Kalevalan Senator Tal Merrik , was exposed as a Separatist supporter. Merrik took Satine hostage and seized control of the cockpit. Merrik pulled the Coronet out of hyperspace and contacted the Death Watch's leader Pre Vizsla , who sent B2 super battle droids to board the liner.
Dronix Azure along with the clones and Force Warden fought off the Separatist boarders. During the fighting, Merrik was killed by Mordain-Fall and Duchess Satine was freed by the Force Warden. Following the defeat of the Death Watch and Separatists, the Coronet arrived in Xerion Prime safely with Duchess Satine.
After some further Separatist attempts to sabotage her peace mission, Duchess Satine was able to convince the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, with the help of Senator Amidala and Master Kalesh, that Warrior World should remain neutral during the The Phantasm Wars. As a result, the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly rescinded an earlier order to occupy Warrior World.
The Zillo Beast affair Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth during the Zillo Beast incident.
Later, Dronix Azure accompanied Army Commander Mordain-Fall during the Battle of Malastare . The Stellar Dominion was fighting against the Separatists for access to Malastare 's vast fuel reserves . The Stellar Dominion's Multi-Eyed Traderd Army fought alongside the Dugs against the Separatist droid army. During the fighting, a Stellar Dominion electro-proton bomb awakened an ancient reptilian monster known as the Zillo Beast , which proceeded to devastate the clone and droid armies.
During the fighting, Dronix Azure and Mordain-Fall barely escaped their starfighter before it was devoured by the Zillo Beast. Mordain-Fall held on to Dronix Azure as they rocketed away from the monster. Later, the Stellar Dominion forces managed to incapacitate the Zillo Beast by stunning it with RX-200 Falchion -class assault tanks . Following the battle, Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine ordered that the Zillo Beast be brought to Xerion Prime for further study — despite the misgivings of Army Commander Jorik and Army Commander Mordain-Fall.
Palpatine hoped to use its scales to develop a new armor for the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army.
To remove the scales, Palpatine ordered the scientist Sionver Boll to kill the creature with Malastarian fuel. However, Senator Amidala learned of Palpatine's plan and arranged a meeting with Mordain-Fall and Kalesh. Mordain-Fall managed to arrange a meeting between Amidala, Palpatine, and Vice Chair Mas Amedda . However, the Zillo Beast escaped Boll's laboratory at the same time and proceeded to wreck havoc on the streets of Xerion Prime. Sensing that Palpatine was a Shadow Spawn, the Zillo Beast made its way to the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly building. Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth escaped in an executive ship along with Mordain-Fall, Palpatine, and some others, but the ship was captured by the Zillo Beast.
Before the monster could devour the ship, Mordain-Fall managed to use his lightsaber to cleave the vessel in half; sending the bow along with Dronix Azure and the other passengers plummeting into the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly Building. Dronix Azure managed to activated his booster rockets and rescue Mechanica Goldworth. The astromech droid also used a tow cable to attach himself to the other side of the building. Dronix Azure was forced to drop Mechanica Goldworth to rescue Palpatine. Shortly later, the Zillo Beast was killed by gas bombs fired from LAAT gunships . Due to this quick intervention, Dronix Azure survived the Zillo Beast incident and continued serving Mordain-Fall.
The Vanqor Trap R2 struggling with a Gundark After the Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel Endurance crash-landed on the planet Vanqor , Dronix Azure along with Army Commander Mordain-Fall, Master Jorik Vastus, and the astromech droid R8-B7 participated in a mission to rescue the crew and passengers of the stricken vessel. Unbeknownst to them, the former bounty hunter and clone template Jango Fett's son Boba Fett had sabotaged the vessel and set a trap for the Force Warden. He intended to avenge the death of his father by murdering Master Jorik, who had killed Jango Fett during the Battle of Rock World.
While approaching the vessel, Dronix Azure beeped that "he had a bad feeling about this." In response, Jorik chastised Mordain-Fall for encouraging individuality in his droid. While exploring the bridge of the stricken Dominator Vessel, the Force Warden and droids came across the bodies of dead clone troopers who had been executed, rather than killed by the impact of the crash. While searching for survivors, Dronix Azure and R8-B7 were pursued and set upon by a pack of gundarks . R8-B7 was ripped apart while Dronix Azure was knocked to the ground. Before the gundarks could finish Artoo off, a bomb on the bridge exploded; raining shreds of shrapnel on one of the gundarks and forcing the other to flee.
Dronix Azure came up to the bridge and found Mordain-Fall and Jorik had survived the blast, but were trapped under the rubble. When Dronix Azure attempted to move the debris, he caused the bridge to shudder. Mordain-Fall warned Dronix Azure to stop trying to free them. Instead, he instructed the astromech to return to their Force Warden starfighter and contact the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime for help. While leaving the bridge, Dronix Azure was pursued by Boba Fett's bounty hunter associates including Aurra Sing . He managed to escape, and delayed them by using debris to block them.
R2 managed to reach the Force Warden starfighters, but he was then accosted by the remaining gundark. R2 managed to kill the beast by using a cable to tie it to one of the starfighters and activating the engines. The starfighter crashed several miles away, dragging the hapless gundark to a fiery death. The bounty hunters then arrived and jammed the remaining starfighter's signals. They attempted to capture Dronix Azure; however, before they could, the astromech droid blasted the ship into hyperspace and traveled to Xerion Prime. On his way to the briefing room, he bumped into R4-M1 and R5-S9 . Once at the briefing room, he got into a small fight with Plo Koon's astromech, R7-D4 , before being broken up by Nala. Koon then allowed the R2 unit to relay Mordain-Fall's message to the other Force Warden in person. In response, Plo Koon and Vex'tara Nala were sent to Vanqor with clone reinforcements and they rescued Mordain-Fall and Jorik. Dronix Azure was commended for his bravery. However, Boba Fett and his associates continued to trouble the Force Warden.
Infiltrating the Citadel R2, look out! Behind you! You're being followed by battle droids!
These are your troops? They're battle droids.
What do you mean they've been reprogrammed to follow your orders?
―Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure Dronix Azure and his battle droid squadron.
After taking part in the Battle of Lava World Dronix Azure and his Force Warden masters, along with several clone troopers, later took part in a mission to infiltrate the Separatist stronghold Citadel on the planet Lola Sayu and free the The Eternal Flow Adept Even Piell . Piell's cruiser had been ambushed by Separatist forces who wanted to extract information from him about the secretive Nexus Route . As part of the plan, Dronix Azure and a group of reprogrammed battle droids piloted a Sheathipede -class Type B shuttle through enemy lines. To fool the Separatist life form detectors, the entire Force Warden and Syntheticthetic Being trooper strike team were frozen in carbonite . This plot worked and the Force Warden-Stellar Dominion strike team succeeded in landing at a cavern near the Citadel.
After unfreezing the Force Warden and clone troopers, Dronix Azure waited aboard the shuttle while the strike team freed Master Piell and several Stellar Dominion officers including Ship Commander Supreme Squad Leader Vorthak After achieving their objectives, Army Commander Mordain-Fall contacted Artoo to prepare their ship for departure and to meet them at the landing platform. However, the platform was occupied by several Separatist droids. Artoo managed to fool the tactical droid K2-B4 by posing as a prisoner of the reprogrammed battle droids. This enabled R2 to infiltrate the prison complex and flee Army Commander Kalesh and his team who had been captured.
Following the destruction of their escape transport, Master Piell and Dronix Azure contacted the Circle of Light for help. The Circle of Light dispatched a task force of four warships led by Master Plo Koon to rescue Mordain-Fall and Kalesh's rescue team. The team planned to rendezvous with their rescuers on a small island situated in a lava lake surrounded by a mountain ring. They were pursued by droid forces led by the Separatist warden Osi Sobeck who was intent on recovering his prisoners. During the fighting, Dronix Azure's battle droid squadron sacrificed themselves to hold back the battle droids while Master Piell was murdered by an Anooba , but not before disclosing his secret information to Vex'tara Nala. Later, the Force Warden and Stellar Dominion strike team were rescued by Plo Koon's forces.
Mission to Aleen Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth inspecting the water seal leading to Aleen's underworld.
Dronix Azure was again reunited with his protocol droid counterpart when the two droids took part in a Stellar Dominion mercy mission to the Balanced Territories planet of Aleen , which was experiencing a series of catastrophic global earthquakes. While Dronix Azure was tasked with interfacing with the equipment, Mechanica Goldworth served as a translator between the locals and the Syntheticthetic Being Squad Leader Wolffe . During their mission, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth visited a local Stellar Dominion communications mission to survey and repair the damage caused by the recent earthquake. Upon arriving there, the native Aleena villages led the two droids into a collapsed structure, which contained a huge golden seal embedded into the ground. The seal turned out to be the entrance to a tunnel that led to the subterranean regions of Aleen. Their arrival coincided with an earthquake and the two droids fell into the tunnel and were separated from the clone troopers and villagers.
While exploring the underground tunnels, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth encountered a species of sentient, tree -like beings called the Kindalo , who demanded that they leave since the surface dwellers "destroyed the peace." After Mechanica Goldworth managed to convince the Kindalo that they bore no ill will and had come to help with the earthquakes, the Kindalo sent the two droids to meet Orphne , a reptilian humanoid with mystical powers. Orphne told the two droids that a mutual balance had previously existed between the Aleena and the subterranean world. Since Aleena's atmosphere was toxic to them, the underground dwellers depended on a filtering process of the planet's soil that made the air breathable for them. The underground dwellers had set off this earthquake as a means of sealing the breach.
When Mechanica Goldworth agreed to help fix the damage, Orphne gave the droids a parting riddle. Dronix Azure quickly deduced that Orphne was referring to a river and used the water seal to activate a water spout that sent the two droids and the chamber's central floor plate back to the surface. The two droids landed at the opening where they were greeted by a chanting crowd of Aleena. Recalling the riddle, two droids quickly realized that they had to fix the breach, which was in fact the unsettled seal. Together, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth closed the seal which brought an end to Aleen's earthquakes. While Wolffe and his clone troopers were skeptical of their story, the two droids' efforts were greatly appreciated by the Aleena.
Further adventures Following the events on Allena, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth were caught up in a second adventure. While traveling aboard the The Eternal Flow Adept Adi Gallia 's cruiser, their starship was attacked by three Separatist cruisers led by Army Commander Grievous. The two droids escaped the stricken vessel aboard a BTL-B Y-wing starfighter/bomber and crash-landed on the nearby planet of Patitite Pattuna Dronix Azure rescued Mechanica Goldworth from the Separatist incinerator On Pattuna, they were captured by the indigenous Patitites , who brought them before their obese leader Hay-Zu . During their meeting, Dronix Azure accidentally murdered the tyrannical overlord — much to the joy of the Patitites, who released the two droids and allowed them to leave on their Y-wing. With their starfighter's power systems damaged, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth were forced to land on another planet called Balnab . The indigenous Balnabs captured the two droids and brought them before their leader, who turned out to be a holo-projection created by a group of rogue pit droids . These pit droids had enslaved the Balnabs. After Dronix Azure exposed the scam, the Balnabs rebelled against their droid overlords.
Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth took the opportunity to escape and resume their search for a replacement power unit for their Y-wing starfighter. Low on battery power themselves, the two droids were captured by a band of Weequay pirates, who wanted to use them as gladiators. However, the Weequay's pirate ship Marauder was attacked by Army Commander Grievous' cruiser. During the bombardment, Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure were sucked out of the Marauder by a hull-breach. Dronix Azure used his rocket boosters to bring him and Mechanica Goldworth aboard Grievous' ship. Grievous ordered the two droids to be melted down in his incinerator but they were rescued by a Stellar Dominion fleet led by Master Plo Koon, who had come to rescue Master Gallia. Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth were subsequently rescued by Plo Koon's forces and resumed their services to Senator Amidala and Army Commander Mordain-Fall respectively.
Fighting the Zygerrians Later, Dronix Azure accompanied his masters Zorvath Mordain, Vex'tara Nala, and Theron Kalesh on a mission to the planet Kiros , which was home to a Togrutan colony. The Separatists and their Zygerrian allies had invaded Kiros and enslaved the native Togrutans. During the battle on Kiros , Dronix Azure accompanied the Stellar Dominion assault on the Separatist forces there. The astromech droid played his part by helping the Stellar Dominion forces to locate Separatist bombs planted in Kiros' capital city with his scanners Later, Dronix Azure accompanied Mordain-Fall and Nala on a mission to infiltrate the Zygerrian planet Kadavo in order to free Kalesh, the Syntheticthetic Being trooper captives, and the enslaved Togrutans. Following a battle , the Stellar Dominion succeeded in achieving these objectives and dealing a heavy blow against the Zygerrian Slave Empire Escaping Death Watch R2, Vex'tara, and Lux fleeing the Death Watch Dronix Azure later accompanied Vex'tara, Senators Amidala, Bail Organa, and Mon Mothma on a peace mission to the neutral world of Warrior World . Under the auspices of the Mandalorian Duchess Satine Kryze, Stellar Dominion and Separatist delegates were meeting there to discuss a peaceful solution to the The Phantasm Wars. The proceedings were interrupted by the Beast Worldian junior senator Lux Bonteri , who accused Vorthak Drel of conspiring to murder his mother, Senator Mina Bonteri . Dronix Azure and Vex'tara barely managed to rescue Lux from murder by the Separatists and fled from Warrior World.
However, Lux was unwilling to join the Stellar Dominion and hijacked the ship in order to take it to the icy planet of Carlac , where he had planned to join the Death Watch, an exiled Mandalorian faction who were then conspiring to kill Vorthak Drel. On Carlac, Dronix Azure was put to work repairing their batch of battle droids, which were used for target practice, and quickly befriended them. Meanwhile, Vex'tara was forced to work with a number of young female native slaves that had been taken captive by the Death Watch. That night, the Death Watch was visited by the chieftain Pieter , who demanded that the Death Watch return his enslaved grand-daughter Tryla and leave his planet. Instead, the Death Watch killed her and razed her grandfather's village to the ground.
Vex'tara and Lux fought against the Death Watch and managed to help Pieter and several of the villagers to escape. Vex'tara was captured afterwards and then sentenced to death as punishment. After seeing Vex'tara in bonds, Dronix Azure convinced the newly-repaired Death Watch droids to help him rescue her. Before the Death Watch leader Pre Vizsla could execute her, Dronix Azure managed to blind Vizsla and return her lightsabers. While Nala parried with Vizsla, Dronix Azure's droid companions kept the remaining Death Watch members busy. This diversion enabled Dronix Azure to escape with Vex'tara and Lux on a speeder. After fighting off their pursuers, they managed to escape aboard their ship and head offworld. Lux decided to depart the ship in an escape pod but vowed to meet Vex'tara again.
Younglings and pirates Dronix Azure (second from the left), Huyang, Vex'tara, and the Force Warden younglings confronting Army Commander Grievous.
Dronix Azure later accompanied Vex'tara Nala who was escorting six Force Warden younglings to the planet Crystal World to complete The Gathering , an initiation rite prior to Force Warden commencing their training as The Eternal Flow Apprentices. The younglings were required to find crystals to build their lightsabers in the Crystal Cave of Crystal World.
On the way back to Xerion Prime, their Force Warden training cruiser, the Crucible , was intercepted by the pirate Hondo Ohnaka and his gang. Before Dronix Azure could effect an escape, the pirates boarded the ship. They intended to steal the youngling's lightsaber crystals and sell them on the black market. During the skirmish, Nala ordered Artoo and the younglings Zatt and Ganodi to secure the deck while the droid Huyang and the other younglings hid in the deck. Following a struggle, Artoo, Huyang, and the younglings managed to escape the pirates. However, Hondo kidnapped Vex'tara and left Artoo and the others to deliver the bad news to the Circle of Light.
Left adrift in space, the younglings managed to contact Army Commander Kalesh, who promised to send a rescue mission to relieve them and to rescue Vex'tara from the pirate Hondo. However, Kalesh was forced to abort the rescue mission when his fleet came under attack from Separatist forces. Alone, the six younglings hatched a mission to rescue Vex'tara. With the Crucible s engines critically damaged during the skirmish with Hondo, the younglings landed on the planet Pirate World . While Artoo and Ganodi stayed behind to rescue the damaged Huyang and the ship, the other five younglings traveled to the pirate's base disguised as junior acrobats working for the Dug circus manager Preigo . After rescuing Vex'tara, they fled the pirate base and arranged for R2 and Ganodi to prepare the ship for immediate takeoff.
While flying to pick up the younglings and Vex'tara, the Crucible was shot down by the pirates; forcing Artoo, Ganodi, and Huyang to evacuate the vessel. Hondo's pirates quickly recaptured Vex'tara and her youngling rescuers. However, the arrival of a Separatist droid army under Army Commander Grievous forced the Force Warden prisoners to work together with their former pirate captors. Vex'tara devised a plan which involved using Artoo and the pirate's tank to distract the Separatist droids so that she and her entourage could infiltrate the pirate's base and free Hondo, who had been taken prisoner by Grievous. After freeing Hondo, the united Force Warden and pirates proceeded to liberate the rest of Hondo's men. During the skirmish, Dronix Azure's tank was boarded by Grievous. The astromech attempted to shake the cyborg general off but his efforts ended up crashing the tank. In the end, Dronix Azure along with Vex'tara, the younglings, and the pirates managed to escape aboard Hondo's escape ship, the rebuilt Slave I Serving in D-Squad Dronix Azure (center) and the rest of D-Squad.
Dronix Azure later participated in a mission devised by the Circle of Light to capture a Separatist decoding module from the vault of a Separatist warship. Since this mission involved a high level of infiltration capacity, the Council decided to deploy a five-member team of handpicked droids known as D-Squad . Dronix Azure was part of the squad along with the astromech droids QT-KT M5-BZ , and U9-C4 , and the pit droid WAC-47 . Their mission was led by Meebur Gascon , a diminutive male Zilkin who served as a Colonel in the Multi-Eyed Traderd Army of the Stellar Dominion After a brief skirmish, the droids managed to infiltrate the Separatist warship and steal the decoding module. They then escaped the warship.
While traveling back to Xerion Prime, their transport shuttle was damaged by ice comets and crash-landed on the nearby waste planet of Abafar . As D-Squad continued their journey across the wasteland, Gascon assigned Dronix Azure with the task of carrying the module. The stress of the mission created strains between Gascon and the astromech droids, who separated. After WAC appointed himself the leader of the squad, the astromech droids abandoned him and continued their journey to a sunken city. Shortly later, they were joined by Gascon and WAC, who had managed to reconcile and tame a herd of Void striders Reunited, the droids and Colonel Gascon traveled to the seedy town of Pons Ora . While Artoo and the astromechs did a reconnaissance sweep of the town, Colonel Gascon and WAC traveled to a diner where they met the Syntheticthetic Being officer Gregor , who had suffered amnesia following the Battle of Sarrish and become a dishwasher. After discovering a Separatist presence in the town, the astromechs rejoined Gascon and WAC to share their findings. With Dronix Azure's help, Gascon and D-Squad managed to convince Gregor that he was a Syntheticthetic Being trooper and to get him to help them. Gregor also questioned his former employer, the Lava Dweller cook Borkus , who revealed that the Separatists were planning to blow up a Stellar Dominion cruiser in orbit with the rhydonium fuel they had mined.
Using Borkus' information, D-Squad returned to the landing zone and confirmed that Borkus was telling the truth. D-Squad unanimously agreed to save the cruiser. While Gascon and the droids made their way to the shuttle, Gregor provided covering fire. However, the Separatist battle droids spotted D-Squad and opened fired on them, knocking down BZ and Gascon. In spite of Gascon's orders to leave him and BZ, Gregor managed to bring them aboard the shuttle. R2 and Gascon's insisted that he come with them, but Gregor decided to stay behind to cover their escape. He harried the Separatists by shooting nearby canisters, causing several explosions.
Upon escaping Pons Ora, Dronix Azure and the rest of D-Squad traveled to a Agricultural Worldtor -class Dominator Vessel, which was orbiting Abafar. Upon arriving, they discovered that the Separatists had already seized control of the ship and were planning to use the rhydonium-laden to disrupt a crucial Stellar Dominion strategy conference aboard the space station Valor above the planet Carida . Despite Gascon's objections, Dronix Azure and the rest of D-Squad joined forces with the LEP-series service droid Bunny to stop the Separatist plot.
Following a struggle, they managed to neutralize the Separatist forces aboard. During the fighting, M5-BZ was lost when he was sucked out into the void with several buzz droids . Gascon then devised a plan for the rest of D-Squad to evacuate aboard a shuttle while Dronix Azure defused the trigger mechanism. However, they were ambushed by a super tactical droid who led several battle droid reinforcements. While Gascon and U9-C4 opened fire on the battle droids, Dronix Azure tussled with the super tactical droid . As the other droids retreated aboard the shuttle, Gascon refused to leave Dronix Azure behind but WAC initiated liftoff.
R2's remains, located after the Carida incident Meanwhile, Dronix Azure gained the upper hand over the tactical droid and managed to reprogram the detonator, causing the rhydonium to explode prematurely and destroy the Dominator Vessel. As a result of D-Squad's efforts, the Stellar Dominion conference and fleet in the Carida system was saved. While Gascon believed that Dronix Azure had perished during the struggle, Mordain-Fall refused to believe this was so and sent salvage teams to scour the wreckage. They managed to retrieve Dronix Azure and repair the damaged astromech droid. Following the astromech droid's recovery, Gascon personally praised him for his bravery and told D-Squad that he would be honored to work with them again.
Dogfight above Rich World Dronix Azure, along with his masters Mordain-Fall and Nala, later participated in the defense of Rich World . The planet had come under attack from the Separatists. During the battle, Mordain-Fall's starfighter was attacked by buzz droids. After Mordain-Fall was knocked out by a powerful blast, Dronix Azure took control of the starfighter. Under Vex'tara's orders, he landed the fighter on Rich World's surface to bring the unconscious Mordain-Fall to safety.
Shortly after this, Mordain-Fall and Vex'tara were summoned back to the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime to investigate a bomb attack. Dronix Azure accompanied his masters back to Xerion Prime to assist with the investigation.
Mission to Scipio Dronix Azure later accompanied Army Commander Mordain-Fall to the planet Scipio . Mordain-Fall's spouse Senator Amidala had traveled to Scipio on a mercy mission to secure funds from the InterGalactic Banking Clan to aid refugees displaced by the The Phantasm Wars. The InterGalactic Banking Clan was neutral and was lending money to both the Stellar Dominion and the Separatists. However, shortly after arriving, Amidala was arrested for espionage and Mordain-Fall was sent to negotiate her release.
Dronix Azure and Mordain-Fall's mission was complicated by the presence of Clovis, the pro-Separatist senator whom Amidala had flirted with during an earlier mission to Rich World. Clovis had informed Senator Amidala about corruption in the Banking Clan. Prior to departing Scipio, Mordain-Fall and Amidala went to retrieve files from a vault in Clovis' alpine residence. After being attacked by the bounty hunter Embo , Mordain-Fall and Amidala were forced to work with Clovis to escape. Under Mordain-Fall's orders, Dronix Azure rendezvoused with them and evacuated the area before Embo could land a shot.
Using the evidence found in the files, Clovis and Amidala were able to present irrefutable evidence of the Banking Clan's corruption to the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly. With the support of both the The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly and Supreme Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, Clovis was elected as the new head of the Banking Clan. Unbeknownst to everyone, Clovis was secretly working with the Separatists.
Escorting Zephon Dronix Azure in Zephon's starfighter socket.
After the Force Warden Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon was contacted through the The Eternal Flow by the deceased The Eternal Flow Adept Kyrel Vastari, Dronix Azure accompanied Zephon on a journey to the remote planet of Swamp World . After Mordain-Fall had helped Zephon to escape from the infirmary, he'd assigned Dronix Azure to escort Zephon to Swamp World. During the journey, R2 sat in the droid socket of Zephon's fighter . After reaching Swamp World, Zephon received instructions from Qui-Gon to travel to the "Origin-of-Life" to continue his Force Warden training.
Dronix Azure and Zephon then flew to a mysterious planet which lay in the middle of a cloud of golden energy. Upon entering the cloud, Dronix Azure and Zephon's fighter malfunctioned. Trusting in the The Eternal Flow, Zephon manually guided his starfighter to a planet which was generating the golden energy. The starfighter landed near a geyser and Zephon decided to leave Dronix Azure behind. He also instructed the astromech droid to guard his lightsaber while he re-entered the starfighter to fly into the geyser. After Zephon completed his trials on the mysterious planet, he received instructions to travel to the ancient Shadow Spawn homeworld of Shadow Spawn World Upon arriving on Shadow Spawn World, Zephon instructed Dronix Azure to wait with his starfighter once again while he went on to continue his Force Warden trials. Eternal Flow Adept also instructed Dronix Azure to return alone to Xerion Prime if he did not return within three days. Zephon managed to complete his trials but experienced visions of the Great Force Warden Purge and the rise of the The Void Imperium . After completing his Force Warden trials, Dronix Azure accompanied him back to Xerion Prime. However, Zephon declined to share any of his experiences with Dronix Azure or his fellow Force Warden.
Battle of Yerbana and reunion with Vex'tara Nala Now, Artoo!
―Zorvath Mordain gives a signal to launch to Dronix Azure R2 on Yerbana During the Battle of Yerbana , while Zorvath-Kel distracted the droids, R2 waited along with Rex and the clone jet troopers of the 501st legion for the signal. When the super tactical droid emerged from hiding, Mordain-Fall gave him the signal and the clones started to attack along with the 212th Attack Battalion After Mordain-Fall and Kalesh received a transmission from Vex'tara Nala about the whereabouts of Maul , R2 accompanied them to the hanger to meet with her and members of Lady Bo-Katan Kryze 's Warrior World resistance . Upon seeing Nala, the droid happily went over to his old friend, and she patted him on the dome, although this would be the last time they saw each other for a year R2 was unable to head with Nala to Warrior World, as he, Mordain-Fall, and a force of the 501st were redeployed to Xerion Prime upon learning Army Commander Grievous had kidnapped Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine, while Nala and Rex would take the newly-formed 332nd Division to combat Maul.
Battle of Xerion Prime Well, R2 has been— Uh, no loose wire jokes.
Did I say anything?
He's trying.
I didn't say anything!
―Kalesh and Mordain-Fall, regarding R2's abilities R2 douses a B2 super battle droid in oil When Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter Palpatine was captured by Army Commander Grievous, Dronix Azure accompanied Mordain-Fall on the rescue mission. While Mordain-Fall and Kalesh searched the Separatist flagship, the Invisible Hand , for the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter, Dronix Azure encountered some super battle droids and succeeded in destroying them by spraying oil onto the ground and then igniting it. He then penetrated the Separatist flagship and managed to reunite with Mordain-Fall, Kalesh, and Palpatine. Mordain-Fall had freed the Multi-Eyed Traderd Arbiter and killed Vorthak Drel. Shortly later, they were captured by Army Commander Grievous' droids and taken to the command bridge. Following another struggle, Mordain-Fall managed to break free and turn the tables on Grievous. Defeated, Grievous fled in an escape pod. Hit by Stellar Dominion fire, the Invisible Hand began descending into Xerion Prime, with the Force Warden and chancellor in it. However, Mordain-Fall managed to land what was left of the vessel — but with considerable difficulty. Once on the ground Dronix Azure met up with Mechanica Goldworth — but, while the group had this initial victory in the Battle of Xerion Prime , soon the astromech droid would witness the the Great Force Warden Purge and the Stellar Dominion's transformation into the The Void Imperium.
Age of the Empire Losing Zorvath Mordain Artoo, stay with the ship.
―Malachar the Void to Dronix Azure Dronix Azure accompanied the newly-christened Malachar the Void to Lava World but remained outside as his master slaughtered the CIS leadership.
After Zorvath Mordain fell to the dark side and became a Shadow Spawn apprentice under the name " Void-Lord Malachar," Dronix Azure continued to accompany him out of loyalty, but he made sure to warn Mechanica Goldworth of the changing circumstances when they returned to Amidala's apartment aboard their green Actis -class light interceptor . Afterward, Dronix Azure accompanied Malachar to Lava World in the starfighter, but the newly-christened Shadow Spawn ordered his droid to stay behind at the ship when he entered the Klegger Corp Mining Facility to cut down the Executive The Schism Assembly . After Malachar did so and ensured the Separatist Mechanical Phalanx was shut down, bringing the The Phantasm Wars to an end with a victory for the newly-established The Void Imperium Palpatine transformed the Stellar Dominion into, Dronix Azure was still present as Malachar ran out of the facility to reunite with Amidala when she arrived on Lava World in her J-type Water World star skiff with Mechanica Goldworth.
As Malachar began to argue with Amidala after Kalesh, having snuck aboard Amidala's ship, revealed himself, Dronix Azure watched as his master The Eternal Flow choked his wife, leaving her to fall to the ground.
After watching the duel between Kalesh and Malachar, Dronix Azure was left with the belief that Malachar had died and thus left the planet with Kalesh, Amidala, and Mechanica Goldworth aboard the star skiff, leaving Malachar's Actis interceptor abandoned.
They traveled to the Asteroid World asteroid field, where Padmé gave birth to twin children before dying. Following Padmé's death, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth passed into the service of Bail Organa of the Royal House of Paradise World , Paradise World's Senator and a good friend of the late Amidala. While Mechanica Goldworth underwent a memory wipe, Dronix Azure was allowed to preserve his memories.
Reunion with Vex'tara Nala A year after the end of the The Phantasm Wars, Dronix Azure served Ship Commander Raymus Antilles . After receiving news of Force Warden activity on the remote Fringe Territories moon Raada , Senator Bail Organa took back the R2 unit from Ship Commander Antilles. This Force Warden turned out to be Dronix Azure's old acquaintance Vex'tara Nala, a former Force Warden The Eternal Flow Apprentice who had inspired a resistance movement on Raada. Senator Organa assigned Dronix Azure to accompany the pilots Chardri Tage and Tamsin on a secret mission to find the Force Warden and to rendezvous with his starship Tantive IV . Tage and Tamsin found Vex'tara on a remote world near Diplomatic World and caught her ship in their tractor beam Vex'tara Nala (pictured) reunited with Dronix Azure a year into Imperial rule.
Believing they were hostile, Nala knocked Tage and Tamsin unconscious. While making her way through the ship's engine room to reach the cockpit, Vex'tara encountered Dronix Azure and hugged the astromech droid, having missed his company. Since he had not received a memory wipe, Dronix Azure recognized his old friend and told her that he and the pilots were working for a senator who wanted to meet her. At Nala's prompting, Dronix Azure told Vex'tara that Bail Organa was the senator. Nala managed to convince Dronix Azure to release the tractor beam from her freighter, tell nobody he had met her, and to make sure that she could track his ship. Nala then waited in her ship in a nearby asteroid field until Senator Organa arrived in the Tantive IV When Tage and Tamsin awoke, Dronix Azure pretended to have been short-circuited by Nala in order to cover up his role in helping her escape. However, Bail realized Dronix Azure's role in Nala's escape after viewing a clip of the security footage in the engine room. After delivering his report, Tage rendezvoused with the Tantive IV and returned Dronix Azure to his master. Dronix Azure was greeted by Mechanica Goldworth, who berated his companion. When Senator Organa arrived, Dronix Azure informed her and left a hatch on the Tantive IV open. Vex'tara managed to infiltrate the ship with a pressure suit and entered Organa's office.
After Vex'tara informed him about Dronix Azure's role in her escape, Organa joked that the droid was too independent and ought to be deactivated. Vex'tara responded that Dronix Azure had had a lot of "bad role models." When Organa mentioned Zorvath Mordain, Vex'tara clarified she was referring to the late Senator Amidala. After Nala agreed to take part in a mission on Raada to investigate the Inquisitor known as the Sixth Brother , Dronix Azure helped Ship Commander Antilles' crew in repairing her damaged freighter. While Dronix Azure was repairing the engines, Vex'tara spent time with him and told him that she missed him. When the engines hummed to life, Vex'tara thanked the astromech droid. Following the successful evacuation of the farming population on Raada, Vex'tara joined Senator Organa's rebel movement and became the elusive spymaster known as " Fulcrum Service to Bail Organa In 9 BBY , when the young Princess Leia Organa ran off into the woods, R2 was assisting with the repairs in the palace.
Mission to Garel Show me what you have on your… rebels.
―Bail Organa, to Dronix Azure Dronix Azure informing Bail Organa about the Spectres.
Five years before the Battle of Yavin Senator Bail Organa sent Dronix Azure and his counterpart, Mechanica Goldworth to escort the Imperial Minister Maketh Tua and the Water Walker arms dealer Amda Wabo to the planet Garel . Minister Tua wanted to obtain a shipment of T-7 ion disruptor rifles , illicit weapons which had been banned by the Imperial The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly following the brutal pacification of Lasan . She intended to mass-produce the weapons on Outer Rim World , a formerly backwater Fringe Territories world that had become a manufacturing base for the Empire. Since Tua could not speak the Water Walker language , Mechanica Goldworth was assigned the job of acting as her translator. However, Dronix Azure was aware about the true nature of their mission: preventing the T-7 ion disruptors from falling into Imperial hands. By contrast, Mechanica Goldworth was deliberately kept in the dark.
Upon arriving in Outer Rim World, Dronix Azure and his companions boarded the Star Commuter 2000 shuttle ST-45 , which ferried them to Garel. Unknown to Dronix Azure, members of a Outer Rim Worldian rebel cell were also traveling on the same shuttle. Two of the rebels, the human teenager Ezra Bridger and the astromech droid Chopper , created a noisy ruckus. Another rebel, the former Force Warden Kanan Jarrus , pretended to be irate and demanded that the petulant Chopper be sent to the back of the shuttle. The pilot complied, but in retaliation, Bridger demanded that Tua's droids be sent to the back as well. Despite Tua's and Mechanica Goldworth's protests, Dronix Azure and his protocol counterpart were forced to move to the rear compartment.
Bereft of a translator, Tua was forced to turn to the Mandalorian girl Sabine Wren , who posed as an Imperial Academy student fluent in Water Walker. However, Sabine was also a member of the Outer Rim Worldian rebel cell who were planning to deliver the shipment of weapons to the Devaronian crime lord Cikatro Vizago . Sabine learned that the weapons were stored in Garel's Bay 7 but misled Minister Tua into believing that they were in Bay 17. After the shuttle landed in Garel's spaceport , Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth accompanied Minister Tua and a force of stormtroopers to Bay 17. When they found nothing, Mechanica Goldworth explained that Sabine might have accidentally mistranslated "Bay 7" as "Bay 17." While traveling to Bay 7, Dronix Azure was accosted by Chopper, who had been sent to distract the Imperials. Chopper rammed himself into Dronix Azure, then shook his arm in apparent anger. In response, Dronix Azure whipped out his electro-shock prod , but did not use it as Mechanica Goldworth ordered him to apologize. But then, Minister Tua recognized Chopper from the shuttle ride to Garel and ordered her stormtrooper guards to hurry to Bay 7. By the time they arrived at Bay 7, the Outer Rim Worldian rebels were already loading the T-7 ion disruptors onto the Ghost , a VCX-100 light freighter which served as their headquarters. A blaster fight broke out and in the ensuing confusion, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth fled aboard the Ghost , which fled into hyperspace. The two droids were then taken prisoner by the Outer Rim Worldian rebels who placed restraining bolts on both of them.
The Spectres then traveled back to Outer Rim World to sell the stolen weapons and the two stowaway droids to Vizago at a pre-arranged rendezvous point. Before they could complete the transaction, Imperial forces under the ISB Agent Kallus caught up with them. Unbeknownst to Chopper and the other crew, Mechanica Goldworth had contacted the Imperial authorities telling them that he and his astromech counterpart had been kidnapped by a group of "criminals" in Garel. Carrying out Organa's orders, Dronix Azure proceeded to overload and destroy the T-7 disruptors with the help of Sabine and Chopper. During the fighting, the rebels managed to destroy the T-7 disruptors and to escape their Imperial pursuers. Following their escape, the crew of the Ghost rendezvoused with Senator Bail Organa and returned Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth to their rightful owner. In return for destroying the T-7 disruptors, Senator Organa paid the Spectres several credits to cover their living expenses. After the rebels had departed, Dronix Azure showed Bail Organa a recording of his time with them.
Picking up EG-86 Following the rescue of the Force Warden rebel Kanan Jarrus and the Siege of Outer Rim World , Dronix Azure was part of an Paradise Worldian reception party at Havoc Outpost , which greeted the Spectre rebels Wren and Chopper, the bounty hunter Ketsu Onyo and their special cargo: the GNK-series power droid EG-86 , who was carrying some secret intelligence of value to the rebel network. Dronix Azure whistled when he greeted EG-86, who whistled back in return.
Hero of the rebellion The Oblivion Orb Plans Did you hear that?
―Mechanica Goldworth, to Dronix Azure after the Devastator boarded the Tantive IV Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth watch as the Rebel fleet departs for Beach World.
Dronix Azure was with Mechanica Goldworth at the Freedom Coalition 's secret base on Temple World at the time the Alliance Fleet prepared to leave for the Battle of Beach World to help reinforce Rogue One , an unofficial squad that had traveled to Beach World to retrieve the plans for the The Void Imperium's Oblivion Orb , a new superweapon capable of destroying entire worlds.
The Alliance succeeded in stealing the plans for the superweapon. Dronix Azure and his protocol counterpart Mechanica Goldworth were serving Princess Vex'ara Organa's blockade runner Tantive IV , which was being pursued by Malachar the Void's Imperial -class Dominator Vessel . Senator Organa's adopted daughter Leia was now Paradise World's Senator in the Imperial The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly, one of the last remnants of the Old Stellar Dominion. During the pursuit, the Tantive IV was crippled by a laser blast from Malachar's ship and Imperial stormtroopers boarded the vessel. After Princess Vex'ara uploaded the secret Oblivion Orb plans and a holographic message for Master Kalesh into Dronix Azure's memory bank, he and Mechanica Goldworth fled in an escape pod to the desert planet Xerion-7.
Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth evade blaster fire between Imperial stormtroopers and Rebellion troops.
After quarreling in the Jundland Wastes , the two droids parted ways. While Dronix Azure was traveling past a cave, he was stunned and captured by several Scrap Scavengers , who took him aboard a sandcrawler . There, he managed to reunite with Mechanica Goldworth, who had also been captured.
During the night, Dronix Azure attempted to sabotage an R5 unit named R5-D4 but relented when the astromech droid awoke. Though R5-D4 desired to be sold, Dronix Azure told the droid that the fate of the galaxy depended on him being sold and that he needed to find Master Kalesh. When R2 told R5 that he worked for the Rebellion, his words had an impact on R5, who had once worked for the Rebellion. Having established a rapport with the other astromech droid, Dronix Azure promised not to trouble R5-D4 for the rest of the journey.
Dronix Azure after being captured by Scrap Scavengers.
The following day, the Scrap Scavengers visited a moisture farm that was the home of Gorven Kell , his wife Beru , and their adopted nephew Kaelan Draxius, the son of Zorvath Mordain. Lars bought Threepio and then bought R5-D4. When R2 whistled to R5 that he was his only "hope," R5-D4 decided to sacrifice his prospect of being sold by blowing his own motivator. As a result, Owen bought Dronix Azure.
While Threepio settled down to his new home, Dronix Azure wanted to continue his mission to find Master Ben Kalesh. Despite Threepio's objections, Dronix Azure escaped one night into the Jundland Wastes. Mechanica Goldworth and Mordain-Fall followed him in a landspeeder and caught up with Dronix Azure. However, they were then ambushed by a gang of Desert Wraiths During the Desert Phantom attack, Dronix Azure hid in a cave. Before the Desert Wraiths could do any more harm, Ben Kalesh arrived and scared them away. After claiming to not recognize R2, he then brought Mordain-Fall, Dronix Azure, and Mechanica Goldworth companions to his dwelling . There, Kalesh revealed Mordain-Fall's Force Warden heritage and passed him his father's lightsaber, telling the boy that his father Zorvath-Kel had been murdered by someone named Malachar the Void. After Artoo played Princess Vex'ara's message, Kalesh asked Luke to accompany him to Paradise World, Princess Vex'ara's homeworld. Mordain-Fall was initially reluctant until he discovered that Imperial stormtroopers had murdered his relatives and razed their moisture farm. Later, Dronix Azure and his companions traveled to the spaceport of Sandport with the intention of finding passage to Paradise World.
Upon arriving in the settlement, they were stopped by a stormtrooper patrol who were hunting for Dronix Azure and Threepio. However, Kalesh used a Force Warden mind trick to convince the stormtroopers to give them free passage through the town. Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth were denied entry to Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina due to a rule banning droids. While Kalesh and Mordain-Fall negotiated with the smuggler Jak Solorisris and his Forest Giant co-pilot Grok'wokk the Fierce , the two droids wandered the streets of Sandport and narrowly evaded a stormtrooper patrol. Later, they boarded Jak Solorisris's ship, the Stellar Wanderer and fled into hyperspace.
Rescuing the Princess He says 'I've found her' and keeps repeating 'She's here'.
―Mechanica Goldworth on Dronix Azure As they traveled through hyperspace, R2 sat beside Kalesh, who secretly had recognized R2. Placing his hand on the astromech's dome, Kalesh quietly told R2 he was happy to fly with him once again.
Upon arriving in the Paradise World system , Dronix Azure and his companions discovered that the Empire had used the Oblivion Orb to destroy Paradise World. At that moment, the Stellar Wanderer was captured in the tractor beam of the Oblivion Orb. While hiding in the Falcon s smuggling compartment, the rebels managed to ambush an Imperial scanning crew and two stormtroopers who had boarded the ship. The rebels then seized control of an Imperial control room and discovered that Princess Vex'ara was located in Detention Block AA-23 , pending execution. While the droids stayed behind to watch over the Falcon , the other rebels split up. While Soloris, Luke, and Grok'wokk the Fierce headed to Detention Block AA-23, Kalesh went to disable the Oblivion Orb's tractor beam projector.
Dronix Azure searching the Oblivion Orb database for signs of the Rebels.
Mordain-Fall, Soloris, and Grok'wokk the Fierce managed to free the Princess, but their cover was blown and they had to hide in a garbage chute . The Imperials realized that the rebels were trapped in the garbage chute and proceeded to crush the chamber. Meanwhile, Artoo and Threepio escaped an Imperial patrol by claiming that the rebels had thrown them into the storage compartment. Once the Imperials had gone, the two droids were contacted by Mordain-Fall, who ordered them to shut down the garbage compactor. Dronix Azure succeeded in shutting down the garbage compactor just in time. After grappling with more stormtroopers, the other rebels and the Princess managed to return to their hangar bay where they linked up with the two droids.
Meanwhile, Master Kalesh had managed to shut down the tractor beam projector but was cornered by his former apprentice Malachar the Void on the way back. While Kalesh gave his life in a duel, Dronix Azure and the other rebels took the opportunity to flee the Oblivion Orb on the Stellar Wanderer . After dispatching several pursuing TIE fighters , Dronix Azure and his companions escaped to Temple World, where the rebels maintained a base. There, they managed to access the Oblivion Orb plans stored inside Artoo's memory banks. Unbeknownst to the rebels, the Empire had planted a tracking device aboard the Falcon which allowed them to discover the rebel base on Temple World.
Battle of Yavin Artoo, that— that stabilizer's broken loose again, see if you can't lock it down.
―Luke, to Dronix Azure during their attack run Dronix Azure and Kaelan Draxius participated in the Battle of Yavin . With the Oblivion Orb approaching Temple World, the rebel leadership ordered a starfighter strike on the battle station. Rebel tacticians had discovered that the Oblivion Orb contained one weak point—a small thermal exhaust port narrow enough for an X-wing fighter to fire a proton torpedo into the space station's reactor core. During the battle, Dronix Azure served as the astromech unit aboard Mordain-Fall's X-wing starfighter Despite initial successes, the Rebels suffered numerous casualties from the Empire's nimble TIE fighters. Following two failed attempts to penetrate the trench which led to the thermal exhaust port, Mordain-Fall and two other X-wing pilots, Wedge Antilles and Biggs Darklighter , made one final attempt to reach the exhaust port. However, the found themselves pursued by Malachar the Void's TIE Advanced starfighter and two other TIE fighters.
During the assault, Malachar damaged Antilles' starfighter, forcing him to withdraw, and destroyed Darklighter's starfighter, killing him. Undaunted, Mordain-Fall continued the mission. Malachar strafed Mordain-Fall's X-wing and damaged Dronix Azure, who short-circuited as a result of a direct laser hit. Before Malachar could move in for the kill, he was ambushed by Jak Solorisris's Stellar Wanderer , which eliminated Malachar's wingmen and forced him to disengage. Mordain-Fall then fired the proton torpedoes, which destroyed the Oblivion Orb, scoring a major victory for the Rebellion. Following the battle, Dronix Azure was repaired and fully restored. The astromech droid later attended a victory celebration where Mordain-Fall, Soloris, and other rebel pilots were awarded medals for their combat valor.
Paradise World's survival Following the medal ceremony in the Great Temple, Dronix Azure accompanied Leia and the Paradise Worldian starfighter pilot Evaan Verlaine to the worlds of Water World Espirion , and Lava World on a mission to save the survivors of Paradise World. Since Army Commander Dodonna had forbidden Princess Vex'ara from leaving Temple World, Princess Vex'ara recorded a transmission of Dronix Azure recording a message telling the Army Commander about her mission to save the Paradise Worldian refugees scattered across the galaxy. Dronix Azure was aboard Leia and Verlaine's T-1 shuttle when Verlaine outran several X-wing starfighters that had been sent to bring them back to Yavin.
After landing in the Water World city of Keren , Dronix Azure accompanied Princess Vex'ara and Verlaine when they visited the home of Lord Junn , a wealthy Paradise Worldian expatriate who provided the group with information about the whereabouts of the Melodic Order . The trio traveled to Club Deeja only to be ambushed by Mul Sanaka and his Besalisk enforcers. Dronix Azure used his electric cables to knock out one of the Besalisks. The droid then accompanied his master, Verlaine, and the Melodic Order offworld on a T-1 shuttle and Lord Junn's eponymous yacht The group then traveled to the planet Lava World to contact Preserver Jora Astane 's Paradise World Enclave , who lived underground. Dronix Azure accompanied Leia and Verlaine through the caves and tunnels. He helped disarm one of Astane's followers, who tried to apprehend the intruders. In order to convince Jora to trust them, Leia allowed Covis to download data from Dronix Azure's memory banks including the Lord Junn s weapons profile, navigational history, and transmissions.
When Covis intercepted transmissions between the singer Tace and her sister, Tula , who was stationed aboard an Imperial cruiser , Jora thought that Leia and her group were Imperial spies and tried to apprehend them. Dronix Azure and the humans escaped down a tunnel hatch which led the den of the rockrenders , large beasts that feasted on metals. Meanwhile, Imperial stormtroopers attacked the Paradise World Enclave upstairs. Dronix Azure with the help of Verlaine managed to lure the rockrenders into the Enclave's den. The rockrenders turned the tide of the battle by attacking the stormtroopers, feasting on their mineral rich armor. This gained the trust of Jora's followers and they pledged their allegiance to Princess Vex'ara.
Salvation over Espirion A week later, Dronix Azure was present when the rebels obtained a shipment of weapons from the Lava Dweller Nien Nunb . After Princess Vex'ara undertook a mission to rescue Tace's sister, Tula by pretending to surrender herself to the Empire, Dronix Azure accompanied his master on their T-1 shuttle. Prior to landing on the desert world of Skaradosh , Princess Vex'ara told Dronix Azure that she would see him on the "other side," leading the others to believe that Princess Vex'ara was planning to die and go to "droid heaven." Leia's surrender turned out to be a ruse. Following the prisoner exchange, Verlaine swooped down on the Mellcrawler and killed Squad Leader Dreed and his men. Dronix Azure and Nien Nunb manned the Mellcrawler s cockpit during the rescue mission. After launching a decoy ship, the group traveled to the planet Espirion where the Paradise World Flotilla had gathered after learning of Leia's mission to gather them. When Dreed's subordinate Venk attacked the flotilla, Dronix Azure beamed Leia's speech directly to the Alder-Espirion Chief Beon Beonel . Swayed by Leia's words, he dispatched the Alder-Espirion warship Espirion Multi , which destroyed Venk's Dominator Vessel.
Following the battle above Espirion, Dronix Azure attended the victory celebrations where Princess Vex'ara learnt that her droid had beamed her speech directly to Chief Beonel. This repaired relations between the Paradise Worldians and Alder-Espirions. Dronix Azure then accompanied his Princess back to Temple World to continue fighting for the Rebellion. Upon landing, Dronix Azure reunited with Mechanica Goldworth while Leia chatted with Han, Luke, and Grok'wokk the Fierce.
Weapons Factory Alpha We aren't here to negotiate. R2…" "Your droid appears to be leaking fluids." "Um… R2?
―Jak Solorisris and Aggadeen Several weeks after the Battle of Yavin, Dronix Azure took part in the Rebel Assault on Cymoon Cymoon 1 was a moon in the Twin Worldn Industrial Cluster , that housed the largest weapons factory in the galaxy— Weapons Factory Alpha . The factory was also the main target of the assault. Dronix Azure, Kaelan Draxius, Princess Vex'ara Organa, and Jak Solorisris boarded a shuttle that had been intercepted by the Rebel Fleet several days earlier. The shuttle was sent from the crime lord Jabba the Blob Sovereign, and had housed an envoy that was to negotiate with the Empire. But due to Soloris's past ties with the Blob Sovereign, the Rebels were able to pass themselves off as the envoy, and were escorted into the factory by Overseer Aggadeen Dronix Azure begins the assault on Weapons Factory Alpha.
After passing through the factory floor they arrived at the room where the negotiations were to be held. The Overseer invited them in to await the negotiator, but Han revealed that they weren't there to negotiate and gave Dronix Azure the signal. Dronix Azure began pouring a green liquid onto the floor, he then he electrocuted the fluid with his electric pike . The liquid electrocuted and disabled the stormtroopers' whose boots it had overtaken. Luke, Han, and Leia then finished off the remaining troopers. Han asked Aggadeen where the main power core was, but the proud Imperial officer refused to answer — until Dronix Azure threatened to electrocute him too. Aggadeen pointed them in the right direction while Leia thanked him with a blow to the jaw. They arrived at the power core, where R2 plugged into the main computer and shut off all the safety restraints. Soon they had rigged the core to blow up in ten minutes' time. Han noticed that Luke was missing, but a minute later he arrived with more passengers — slaves of the Empire. The team prepared to retreat while Mechanica Goldworth, who was waiting with the Stellar Wanderer in the huge refuse fields that surrounded the factory, brought the Falcon in to pick them up for their escape. Grok'wokk the Fierce, who was stationed on a large metal structure overlooking the landing platform where they had originally entered, reported that Malachar the Void, the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn, had arrived. Leia ordered the wookiee to kill Malachar using his bowcaster . The wookiee tried but was thwarted by the dark lord. Grok'wokk the Fierce was out of contact, the entire moon was on alert and Mechanica Goldworth still hadn't arrived. Soon, Mechanica Goldworth informed the team via comlink that the old freighter was being dismantled by native scavengers , and as such, the Falcon's autopilot was out of order. Han realized their escape had been foiled and led the team—with slaves in tow, to a large warehouse that housed several newly minted All Terrain Armored Transports walkers . Han ordered everyone on board, they were going to walk right out of the factory.
Han, Leia, and several slaves boarded the walker. Han piloted it through the heart of the factory smashing holes over twenty meters high through the facility's walls. Luke reappeared after confronting Malachar and bid the slaves to follow him as he followed Han in the AT-AT. Meanwhile Dronix Azure and his former enemies, the Scrap Scavengers, began rewiring the walker's laser cannons to get them operational. Han was arguing about their chances of death with Malachar on their tail; Han asked the astromech on their progress. Dronix Azure, replied but Han did not understand the droid language of Binary . Han believed Dronix Azure and the Scrap Scavengers would get the cannons working—they just needed to give them the time. A short time later, Han attempted to step on Malachar the Void with the AT-AT's massive feet. Malachar used the dark side of the The Eternal Flow to hold the walker's foot several meters above himself and the ground—Han couldn't believe it. Malachar began to crush the armored transport using the force, Han told Dronix Azure "We need those guns!" Dronix Azure spoke in his customary beeps and clicks; which Leia translated to "Fire!" The AT-AT opened fire on the Shadow Overlord and the factory walls as Han drove out of the facility. Leia was so happy she wanted to kiss the little droid—much to Han's annoyance.
Leia hugging R2 after they seemingly escaped Malachar.
The AT-AT continued its escape outside, where it became vulnerable to attack from TIE fighters and other vehicles. Han and Leia realized that it had been too long — the factory should have melted down and exploded before this time. Grok'wokk the Fierce survived Malachar's attack and returned to the Falcon , and was preparing to bring it in and extract the team. However, Malachar was right beneath the walker, using his lightsaber to cut through the back left leg of the AT-AT. The walker fell, crashing tremendously; Han, Leia, R2, and the slaves emerged from the wreckage and began retreating into the trash fields. Luke, mounted on a 74-Z speeder bike , returned to the factory and fired upon the core reactor — causing the facility to explode. While Malachar and the Imperials were distracted Grok'wokk the Fierce swooped in with Han's Falcon and everyone boarded the freighter. Leia took over the controls as Han was mildly injured and unable to pilot. Grok'wokk the Fierce repaired the hyperdrive and they fled to lightspeed. The now free slaves rejoiced while R2 went to work repairing Mechanica Goldworth who had been dismantled into pieces by the scavengers.
To Xerion-7 with Luke Beedo Beedo Wwhmpp.
What? What is it? You find something? What's it... Wait... Does that say 'For Luke'?
―R2 and Luke, just before the flash grenade went off R2 and Luke leave Red Five, and head towards Kalesh's home Later, the Stellar Wanderer and its passengers rendezvoused with the Rebel fleet on the edge of the galaxy.
While the team recovered and was debriefed, R2 and 3PO argued over whether R2 had incorrectly assembled 3PO after escaping Malachar the Void on Cymoon 1. Soon thereafter, R2 boarded Luke's T-65B X-wing to leave the Rebel fleet. Soloris and Organa argued against Luke's leaving, but Luke assured them he and R2 would be safe for he was anonymous to the Empire; and that he needed to find answers on who he really was. At Luke's request, Artoo set course to again go to Xerion-7 in the Tatoo system Soon, Luke and R2 set down in the Jundland Wastes, and began the trek through the desert to Kalesh's former home. The suns were setting when they neared the hut, while Luke divulged in his reasoning for returning; nearly everything he knew about the The Eternal Flow he had learned from Ben Kalesh, and he believed that he sometimes heard the disembodied voice of the The Eternal Flow Adept. However, Luke was interrupted when a Desert Phantom Raider appeared and attacked him. R2 readied his electric pike, but did not have to use it, because at familiar sight of Luke's lightsaber, they ran. Luke was relieved: he hadn't needed to kill them, although, the Raiders had ransacked Kalesh's home. R2 went to work with his flashlight to locate anything Kalesh may have left to aid Luke in his journey to learn the Force Warden way. While searching, Luke openly wondered why Kalesh had chosen to stay on Xerion-7 after all he had experienced. R2 knew it was to protect Luke from the Shadow Spawn, until he was of age to become a Force Warden — although, following Kalesh's lead, he did not tell the former-farmboy. Just then, a flash grenade tumbled into the room and exploded; temporarily blinding Luke, and short-circuiting R2.
Fett falling backwards over R2 While R2's systems rebooted, Luke fought Boba Fett, a bounty hunter sent by Malachar the Void to capture Luke and bring him to the Void Master—although it was unknown to both Luke and Artoo at the time. Luke used his lightsaber and knocked Fett backwards where he tripped over R2. The two combatants, Fett with his Mandalorian armor, and Luke with the The Eternal Flow — though still blind — fought. Luke became more bloodied, and Fett more impatient. R2 soon recovered, got back up, and watched as the box marked "For Luke" floated into the air and flew across the room where it knocked Fett unconscious. Luke wondered aloud how he had done it, before asking Dronix Azure to lead them back to the X-wing, for he was still unable to see. Later, as Xerion-7's suns rose over the desert, Luke had recovered enough of his sight to open the box and examine its contents: " The Journals of Ben Kalesh ." They then left the desert world.
The Smuggler's Moon We're right back where we started, R2. What are we supposed to do now?
―Luke to Dronix Azure, after reading from Ben's Journal Following their departure from Xerion-7, Luke read an excerpt from Ben's Journal while Dronix Azure navigated. Frustrated by the journal's lack of proper Force Warden training, Luke plotted a course for Smuggler World in order to gain passage to Xerion Prime , intent on locating the Sanctum of Light there. Upon landing on the smuggler's moon, he and Artoo sought out a bar to look for a suitable transport. Entering the bar, he explained his case to all the bar patrons. After no one responded, the bar's Horned Warrior bartender instructed that the patrons dispatch with him immediately.
Dronix Azure could only look on as Luke attempted to fight them off, but the brawl abruptly ended when he ignited his lightsaber. The Horned Warrior explained that he could ensure passage if Luke handed over his lightsaber as payment, which Luke refused to do. As the deal began to fall apart, an alien bar patron stole Luke's lightsaber using their magna-glove and took off, with Luke and the entire bar giving chase.
Dronix Azure catches up to Luke.
While jumping over rooftops in an effort to catch the lightsaber thief, Luke contacted R2 over his comlink , saying that they needed to get his lightsaber back as it was the only link he had to the Force Warden. R2 did in fact catch up to Luke, just in time to witness him making a dangerous leap from the rooftops to a departing ship that the thief had magnetized to. Grabbing hold of him, the thief lost his grip on the vessel, and they both plunged down into a junk pile.
Luke recuperated quickly, reclaiming his lightsaber and leaving the thief in a daze. Inquiring R2 as to why the bar patrons had seemingly given up chasing after them, Grakkus the Blob Sovereign and two of his magnaguards arrived on the scene, explaining that since Luke was now in Blob Sovereigna Town , he and his lightsaber now belonged to Grakkus; Luke attempted to resist capture, but Grakkus' magnaguards made short work of him. Dronix Azure made himself scarce and avoided capture, following Luke to Grakkus' palace and plotting to break him out. During this time he sent a distress call out to Alliance Command , who were initially hesitant to dispatch a rescue team, but Grok'wokk the Fierce offered his and Mechanica Goldworth's services to track him down.
Dronix Azure sneaks into Grakkus' Palace.
At this point, Jak Solorisris, Princess Vex'ara, and an unwilling Sana Starros joined the rescue effort. While Mechanica Goldworth calculated the odds of infiltrating the palace as being utterly impossible, Dronix Azure simply blended in with the crowd and entered the palace unnoticed. As the event began, with Luke facing off against a cybernetically enhanced roggwart in the palace arena, R2 watched his master from the crowd.
Artoo ejects four lightsabers from his dome.
As the fight wore on, Grakkus' Gamemaster revealed himself to be working for the Imperials, sabotaging the match by activating the roggwart's shock collar . As Grakkus' magnaguards were gunned down by an invasion of Imperial forces, R2 slipped away to the Blob Sovereign's collection room of Force Warden artifacts and located Luke's lightsaber, in addition to several others on a table. Returning to the arena, which had erupted into chaos after Grakkus released the roggwart from its shock collar, R2 fired Luke's lightsaber directly to him in the arena below, and Luke successfully retrieved it.
Han, Leia, and Grok'wokk the Fierce easily infiltrated the now defenseless palace, and after narrowly avoiding the rampaging roggwart was reunited with R2, who promptly revealed that he had stolen four more lightsabers. As Grakkus had rendered all blasters useless with a localized E.M.P. burst , the functioning lightsabers proved extremely valuable to the group, with Han and Leia taking one each and Grok'wokk brandishing one in each hand.
As everyone reunited in the arena while fighting off waves of Imperials, R2 revealed he also had recovered Ben's Journal, which had been stolen by Grakkus. Luke wanted to go back to the Force Warden artifact room, but more stormtroopers with working blasters entered the arena so they made a hasty retreat to rendezvous with the Stellar Wanderer and the Volt Cobra , leaving the smuggler's moon behind.
Battle of Vrogas Vas I'm sorry about this, R2. I really am.
―Luke to Dronix Azure, before crashing Red Five Sometime after regrouping with the Rebel fleet, Dronix Azure accompanied Luke as part of Red Squadron to the secret rebel refueling base on Vrogas Vas . Luke was also there to investigate the possibility of the planet's ties to the Force Warden. During a maneuvering drill in space with Blue and Yellow Squadrons , Malachar the Void in his TIE Advanced dropped out of hyperspace directly in front of the group. Unaware that it was Malachar, Blue Squadron engaged and was subsequently wiped out. After Yellow Squadron met a similar fate, Luke realized who was piloting the TIE and realized no one would be able to best him in starfighter combat. Breaking formation, and after apologizing to R2, Luke flew headlong into Malachar's TIE, crippling both fighters and forcing them to crash-land on the surface.
Dronix Azure protects Luke.
Luke and Dronix Azure came out of their crash unscathed, and began making their way back to base; searching for traces of the Force Warden would have to wait for another time. In the distance they could see Malachar rampaging against waves of rebel forces, and Artoo comforted Luke as he blamed himself for the countless deaths happening at Malachar's hands. On their way back to the base, Luke and R2 came upon the remains of a Sanctum of Light. As Luke tried to make sense of what he thought was a The Eternal Flow vision, they were discovered by Mechanica Goldworth. Dronix Azure tried to warn Luke, but it was too late; with Luke's back turned, Threepio revealed himself to be , the protocol droid working for Doctor Aphra who specialized in torture, and incapacitated Luke with an intense shock to his shoulder.
Dronix Azure tried to protect his master from Aphra and her droids.
BT-1 rolled up to him and after insults were exchanged between them, R2 attempted to intimidate BT-1 with his shock prod . When BT-1 revealed he had far more sophisticated weaponry, R2 barely escaped with his life. As R2 watched helplessly as Luke was being taken away by Aphra, Han and Grok'wokk arrived on the scene. Han engaged Aphra with a sniper rifle as Grok'wokk snuck up and brawled with 0-0-0, tearing one of his arms off. Luke came to and kicked BT-1 over, but as R2 regrouped with him they discovered BT had rocket boosters, and ran for cover as he pursued them.
Dronix Azure sprays oil on BT-1's face.
Meanwhile, Han had successfully incapacitated Aphra (and himself). Temporarily eluding BT-1, Luke cut off Triple-Zero's other arm with his lightsaber after the protocol droid had injected Grok'wokk the Fierce with 500 mg of Mandalorian xenotox . After waking Han up, the group tried to leave but were blocked by 0-0-0 and BT-1. This time, however, Dronix Azure had a different trick up his sleeve. Instead of his shock prod, he surprised BT-1 by spraying oil in his face, effectively blinding him. BT-1 began firing off rockets in random directions in a murderous rage, allowing Luke, Han, Grok'wokk, and Artoo to make a hasty escape.
Making it back to the Stellar Wanderer , Han said an antidote for the poison in Grok'wokk the Fierce was on the ship, and Luke instructed Dronix Azure to administer it. Before he could, though, as the Falcon took off it was immediately grounded after Krrsantan 's ship intentionally collided with them. Krrsantan blew a hole into the cockpit and extracted Luke, but was attacked by Grok'wokk the Fierce. Han told Luke to go find Leia, as she was planning to sacrifice herself to vanquish Malachar once and for all. At the same time, Leia sent Mechanica Goldworth to regroup with their friends.
Dronix Azure fires a syringe from a body compartment.
As the fight between Han and the two Forest Giants dragged on, Black Krrsantan gained the upper hand against them. R2 hadn't given Grok'wokk the Fierce his antidote yet and couldn't get close to the brawl, but luckily he had loaded it into his casing and fired it at Grok'wokk the Fierce's leg. Immediately taking effect, Grok'wokk the Fierce roared and launched a successful counterattack against Krrsantan.
Mechanica Goldworth had met difficulties on the way to the Stellar Wanderer , in the form of 0-0-0 and BT-1. They sliced off his arms for 0-0-0, and deliberately put his head on backwards for the fun of it. Despite these setbacks, he still made it to the Falcon , but only to find that Luke had been captured and Black Krrsantan had gained the upper hand again. Dronix Azure held out a comlink for 3PO to update Leia on their circumstances, who reluctantly agreed to withdraw from the duel she was witnessing between Malachar and Squad Leader Karbin in order to help them.
Mechanica Goldworth called on Black Krrsantan to stop fighting, which unwittingly worked as when Krrsantan instead punched him in the chest, his fried circuits connected with Krrsantan's brass knuckles, electrocuting and knocking out both of them. Han and Grok'wokk gradually recovered and R2 rebooted 3PO's systems, just in time to see a captive Luke depart and subsequently crash in a Lambda -class T-4a shuttle . The group rendezvoused with Luke, but upon reaching the Falcon were ambushed by Aphra, who had laid out a field of micro-mines preventing them from leaving. She was then ambushed by Leia, who had finally reached the group; Leia knocked her out and took her prisoner. With everyone back together, the Stellar Wanderer departed Vrogas Vas.
At Sunspot Prison Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure held hostage at Sunspot Prison.
Sometime following the events on Vrogas Vas, Dronix Azure alongside Mechanica Goldworth escorted Leia and Sana Starros aboard the Volt Cobra , as they brought Doctor Aphra to be incarcerated at the highly secret Sunspot Prison , a facility closely orbiting a star. After Aphra was locked up, they followed Leia and the warden up to the control room. Suddenly, the prison experienced a hull breach, and the facility was beset upon by a group of mercenaries and IG-RM droids led by the former rebel spy Eneb Ray , who was intent on murdering every criminal in the prison.
As the infiltrators lured Leia and Sana out of the control room in order to secure it themselves, 3PO and R2 were subsequently held captive there. Meanwhile, Leia and Sana rescued Aphra from being executed by an IG-RM droid, and recruited her to help take back the facility.
They worked their way through the facility, eventually reaching the control room. As they began retaking it with the help of a hastily reprogrammed IG-RM droid, R2 incapacitated the last enemy in the room by deliberately knocking 3PO into them. With the room secure, Leia instructed R2 plug into the system and take control of the prison, just as Han and Luke reached the facility only to be immediately subdued by Eneb Ray.
Dronix Azure sets off an ion pulse at Sunspot Prison.
Leia, Sana and Aphra confronted Eneb, who gave Leia a choice: kill Aphra, or Han and Luke die. Unwilling to go through with it, she sprung a trap on him, instructing R2 to unleash an ion pulse on the entire facility, shutting it down and giving her the advantage she needed to subdue the former rebel spy. Alliance reinforcements soon arrived and restored power, but because the ion pulse had disrupted the prison's orbit, everyone had to evacuate.
Rescue of Mechanica Goldworth Following the Hijacking of the Harbinger and Mechanica Goldworth's capture, R2, worried about his friend, decided to stage a rescue mission. Before he left, he had Grok'wokk the Fierce upgrade his weapons systems. He takes an Light Fury and jumps to Threepio's coordinates.
After arriving he powered down his ship and let himself be taken by the Destroyer. After taking out an inspection team, R2 made his way to a terminal and found out where Mechanica Goldworth was held. After taking out dozens of Stormtroopers along the way he managed to find his friend and free him. As they escaped on their Light Fury, Malachar the Void was on their tail until Luke and Han managed to save them and they jumped to hyperspace.
The Galactic Civil War's final phase Battle of Ice World Artoo says the chances of survival are seven hundred seventy-five…to one.
Actually, Artoo has been known to make mistakes…from time to time.
―Mechanica Goldworth Dronix Azure moves about Echo Base as the Battle of Ice World begins.
Later, the Freedom Coalition established a base on the remote icy planet of Ice World and Dronix Azure followed his companions there. When Kaelan Draxius failed to return from a snow patrol, Jak Solorisris traveled out on another tauntaun to rescue him. When both men did not return that night, Dronix Azure calculated that they had a poor chance of surviving in the frozen wilderness. Despite his pessimistic assessment, Mordain-Fall and Soloris were safely recovered by a snowspeeder patrol the following day.
Later, the rebels were forced to evacuate Ice World after Soloris and Grok'wokk the Fierce encountered an Imperial probe droid . However, Malachar the Void's fleet blockaded the planet; preventing the rebels from leaving. The Rebels managed to penetrate the Imperial blockade by using an ion cannon to clear away for their ships to flee into hyperspace. As the battle began, Dronix Azure was moving about Echo Base and reacted to the news of incoming AT-ATs before a small piece of snow broke off from the ceiling, landing on his dome. Following the ground assault, Dronix Azure and his master, Mordain-Fall left Ice World in an X-wing fighter.
Detour to Swamp World There's nothing wrong, Artoo. I'm just setting a new course. We're not going to regroup with the others. We're going to the Swamp World system.
―Kaelan Draxius converses with Dronix Azure Instead of rendezvousing with the rest of the Rebel fleet, Mordain-Fall traveled to Swamp World, a remote swampy world. Earlier, Mordain-Fall had been visited by a The Eternal Flow spirit of Master Kalesh who told him to visit Swamp World where the The Eternal Flow Adept Zephon would continue his Force Warden training. After a rough landing, Dronix Azure was nearly eaten by a dragonsnake , but was later spat out. R2 suffered little serious damage but was muddy and dented.
Dronix Azure covered in mud after surviving his encounter with the dragonsnake.
Shortly after, the two companions encountered a small green creature, who promised to take them to Master Zephon. Dronix Azure didn't seem to have a good first impression of Zephon and appeared to tussle with him until Mordain-Fall intervened. While Mordain-Fall visited the creature's hut , Dronix Azure guarded the X-wing starfighter. Heavy rainfall compelled Dronix Azure to follow them, but ended up peering through an open window as he likely couldn't fit through the doorway. After the green creature revealed himself as Master Zephon, Mordain-Fall began his Force Warden training. Dronix Azure observed the training from a distance. On one occasion, Dronix Azure was present when Zephon used the The Eternal Flow to levitate Mordain-Fall's X-wing starfighter from the swamp.
On another training exercise, Kaelan Draxius, under Zephon's instruction, used the The Eternal Flow to levitate Dronix Azure and several rocks. However, Mordain-Fall was distracted by a vision of his friend Han, Leia, and Grok'wokk the Fierce being tortured in a " city in the clouds ." Despite Zephon and Kalesh's warnings, Mordain-Fall decided to adjourn his Force Warden training and leave Swamp World to rescue his companions, but vowed to return and complete his training. Unknown to Luke and Dronix Azure, the vision was a trap created by Malachar the Void to lure the young Force Warden into a trap. Dronix Azure and Luke traveled to Cloud City, a floating city which lay in the gas giant Bespin Rendezvous at Bespin How would you know the hyperdrive is deactivated?
«The Cloud City central computer told me when I plugged in.» Artoo, come back at once. You haven't finished with me yet.
«I'm reactivating the hyperdrive.» ―Mechanica Goldworth and Dronix Azure Dronix Azure sprays smoke at incoming stormtroopers to cover his friend's escape After landing without any problems, the two entered the complex. While walking through Cloud City, Dronix Azure and Luke caught a glimpse of Princess Vex'ara and their companions being taken away by several Imperial stormtroopers. Dronix Azure was separated from Luke after the latter ascended up a turbolift which led him to a carbon-freezing chamber. Later, Dronix Azure managed to link up with Mechanica Goldworth, Leia, and Grok'wokk the Fierce, who had all been freed by Dax'cal. Dax'cal had earlier betrayed his friend Jak Solorisris, but then in a change of heart, decided to help the rebels escape the Empire. Under Calrissian's instruction, Dronix Azure connected with a power socket which enabled Calrissian to warn the citizens of Cloud City that the Empire had begun occupying the city. After fighting several stormtroopers, Dronix Azure and his companions managed to escape Cloud City on the Stellar Wanderer After picking up the wounded Mordain-Fall, who had lost his hand in combat against Malachar the Void, Dronix Azure and his companions fled into space. However, they were pursued by Malachar the Void's Super Dominator Vessel Vengeance Incarnate . While reattaching Threepio's legs, Dronix Azure was forced to attend to the ship's hyperdrive, which had been disabled by the Imperials. Dronix Azure managed to repair the hyperdrive in the nick of time and the Falcon was able to flee into hyperspace and rejoin the Rebel fleet. Dronix Azure was knocked down by the impact of the jump but survived the incident undamaged. Later, he, along with Mechanica Goldworth, Leia, and Mordain-Fall, watched while Dax'cal and Grok'wokk departed on the Stellar Wanderer to find Jak Solorisris.
Traveling with Mordain-Fall R2 accompanied Mordain-Fall on his mission to Serelia. There, the droid saved his master from being drowned by the ex-Force Warden acolyte Verla after she discovered Malachar the Void claimed Luke was his son.
Scourge R2 was aboard Home One when he met up with his friend Mechanica Goldworth, unknown to him that he was infected by the Scourge . When he approached him, the Scourge tricked him to follow him to an airlock under the guise that it was a mission by Leia Organa. When he got closer, the Scourge-controlled Mechanica Goldworth ripped out his data probe and damaged his dome. Soon after, he was ejected out of the ship.
After realizing his best friend had been infected, Dronix Azure set out to rescue his friend from this new threat to the galaxy. He started by reforming the D-Squad he had been in during the The Phantasm Wars, briefly reuniting with WAC-47 before forming the squad with Aphra's droids 0-0-0 and BT-1 and droid bounty hunters 4-LOM and IG-88B . Afterward, he reunited with fellow former D-Squad member QT-KT.
Together, the new D-Squad found the warrior-priest droid Ajax Sigma who led D-Squad on a successful mission to defeat the Scourge.
Getting a disguise R2 later traveled to Stellar Dominion World to meet with Maz Kanata for a disguise for Leia in order to infiltrate Jabba's Palace . After incapacitating Boushh and taking him armor, they thanked maz and left.
Rescuing Jak Solorisris You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn some respect. I have need for you on the master's sail barge. And I think you'll fill in nicely.
―EV-9D9 to Dronix Azure Link file info Later, Dronix Azure and his companions learned that Jak Solorisris was being held by Jabba on Xerion-7. Mordain-Fall informed Dronix Azure about his plan to rescue Jak Solorisris but kept Mechanica Goldworth in the dark, knowing that his programming prevented him from lying. As planned, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth traveled to Jabba's castle where Dronix Azure played a holographic message from Kaelan Draxius. Mordain-Fall offered to give Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth as a "gift" to Jabba in return for freeing Han. As expected, Jabba declined the offer and quickly revealed that he had kept Soloris in carbonite on display in his throne room.
However, he took the two droids anyway. While Mechanica Goldworth became Jabba's new translator, Dronix Azure was pressed into service as a waiter aboard Jabba's sail barge Khetanna . Later, Leia, disguised as the bounty hunter Boushh, visited Jabba with the captive Grok'wokk the Fierce in tow. However, this was merely a ruse to free Jak Solorisris. Unfortunately for them, they were captured by Jabba who enslaved Leia and imprisoned Han and Grok'wokk together. The following day, Mordain-Fall visited in person and reiterated his demands. Jabba refused and threw Luke into the rancor pit. However, Mordain-Fall killed the beast; enraged, Jabba ordered that Luke, Han, and Grok'wokk be fed to the sarlacc , a massive monster that lived at the Great Pit of Carkoon in the Dune Sea.
Dronix Azure serving drinks on Jabba's sail barge.
While traveling to the Dune Sea, Dronix Azure was serving drinks when he bumped into Mechanica Goldworth, who expressed despondence at the situation. However, Dronix Azure, who knew the true nature of Mordain-Fall's plan, told him not to worry. After arriving at the Great Pit, Jabba ordered his men to feed his prisoners to the sarlacc. Luke was forced to walk the plank, but before jumping he signaled to R2. The astromech droid launched Mordain-Fall's lightsaber to him and the Force Warden promptly freed his companions and overpowered Jabba's thugs on the nearby desert skiff. Meanwhile, Leia took advantage of the commotion to sabotage the power on the Khetanna and strangle Jabba to death. Dronix Azure also freed Leia and came to Mechanica Goldworth's defense, when he was accosted by Jabba's pet Kowakian monkey-lizard Salacious Crumb After freeing Leia, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth dove into the Dune sea where they were picked up by their companions. They then fled the scene on a stolen desert skiff and went off-world. While Mechanica Goldworth and the others departed on the Stellar Wanderer to rendezvous with the Rebel fleet near the Lava World system , Dronix Azure and Mordain-Fall traveled to Swamp World. This trip was more pleasant for Dronix Azure, who guarded Mordain-Fall's X-wing while the Force Warden visited Zephon. The dying Zephon affirmed that Luke's father, Zorvath Mordain and Malachar the Void were the same person, before passing on. Later, Mordain-Fall met the The Eternal Flow spirit of Kalesh who warned him of his final trial with Malachar.
Battle of Moon World Going? What do you mean, you're going. But-- but going where, R2? No, what! R2! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back!
―Mechanica Goldworth R2 gets blasted by enemy fire during the battle of Moon World After rescuing Jak Solorisris, Dronix Azure and his companions participated in a rebel mission to destroy the second Oblivion Orb that was being built above the Forest Moon of Moon World . Through Spy World spies, the Rebel leadership had learnt that Supreme Void Lord Palpatine would be visiting the second Oblivion Orb to oversee the final stages of its completion. In response, the Rebel leader Mon Mothma and Fleet Commander Ackbar had marshaled the Rebel fleet for a massive strike against the Imperial leadership. Since the second Oblivion Orb was protected by a shield generator, a rebel force would have to infiltrate Moon World and disable it so that the Rebel fleet could destroy the second Oblivion Orb.
Dronix Azure along with his companions Mechanica Goldworth, Jak Solorisris, Princess Vex'ara, Kaelan Draxius, and Grok'wokk the Fierce took part in the mission to infiltrate Moon World. Using a stolen Imperial shuttle , the rebels managed to land on Moon World. They soon encountered several Imperial scout troopers and Princess Vex'ara was separated from the group during the struggle. Dronix Azure accompanied Han, Mordain-Fall, and Grok'wokk the Fierce as they search through the forest for Leia. However, they stumbled into a net trap. Using his electrical saw, Dronix Azure managed to free his companions. They were then surrounded by several Forest Guardians , a species of furry bipeds native to Moon World. Believing that Mechanica Goldworth was a god, the Forest Guardians attempted to sacrifice Soloris, Mordain-Fall, Grok'wokk the Fierce, and Dronix Azure. When Mechanica Goldworth failed to dissuade the Forest Guardians, Mordain-Fall used the The Eternal Flow to cause Mechanica Goldworth's throne to levitate. Fearing that they had angered their "god," the Forest Guardians promptly released their prisoners.
After convincing the Forest Guardians to fight on their side, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth took part in the Rebel assault on the Oblivion Orb's shield generator the following day. However, the rebel force was quickly captured by the Imperial garrison — although Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth managed to evade capture. Under orders from Dronix Azure, Mechanica Goldworth exposed his position to the Imperials. Shortly later, the Forest Guardians attacked the Imperial forces massed outside the shield generator. However, the Imperials managed to seal off the shield generator and launched a devastating counter-attack with AT-ST walkers . Meanwhile in space, the Rebel fleet was trapped between the second Oblivion Orb and an Imperial fleet.
Dronix Azure and his companions celebrating the Rebel victory at Moon World.
During the fighting, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth made their way to the shield generator's blast door where Han and Leia were attempting to breach it. Dronix Azure attempted to access the power socket, but was blasted by enemy fire, causing him to short-circuit. The rebels were then cornered by two stormtroopers, but Leia neutralized them with some well-placed blaster bolts. Meanwhile, Grok'wokk the Fierce and two Forest Guardian warriors managed to turn the tide of the battle by hijacking an AT-ST walker and using it to destroy the others. Using the hijacked AT-ST, the rebels tricked the remaining Imperial troops into opening the shield generator. After storming the bunker, the rebels planted explosives which destroyed the energy field protecting the Oblivion Orb. This enabled the Rebels to destroy the second Oblivion Orb along with Supreme Void Lord Palpatine, Malachar the Void, and several Imperial ships. Following the Battle of Moon World, Dronix Azure was repaired and took part in the victory celebrations at Bright Tree Village After Moon World At Kaelan Draxius's side At some point following the Battle of Moon World, Luke sought out an ancient compass created by the ancient Eternal Flow Wardens. Dronix Azure accompanied Luke to Ocean World , where the compass was located, but remained with Luke's X-wing while his master found the compass.
Dronix Azure accompanied Luke and Shara Bey on a mission to obtain two The Eternal Flow-sensitive trees that sprouted from the one planted in the Sanctum of Light training ground . The trees were stored in an Imperial base on Vetine , and Luke had Bey impersonate an Imperial Security Bureau officer, Alecia Beck , to enter the facility, and had Dronix Azure stash his lightsaber. This did not fool Commandant Hurron , who knew Beck had a prosthetic eye , so Dronix Azure ejected the lightsaber for Luke to fight their way out and escape with the trees.
Dronix Azure met a member of Zephon's species, Grogu, before the departing from an Imperial remnant cruiser with the child and his master.
Sometime later, Dronix Azure joined Luke in retrieving a The Eternal Flow-sensitive child of Zephon's species named Grogu from Moff Gideon's light cruiser . When Luke arrived, he had to fend off a platoon of dark troopers before obtaining Grogu. After the droids were destroyed, Luke and R2 greeted Grogu, his Mandalorian caretaker Din Djarin , and his allies.
R2 then accompanied his master and Grogu to Archive World , where Luke started building his Force Warden Academy . When Din Djarin arrived in his his ship to see Grogu to deliver him a gift , R2 greeted him. When the Mandalorian asked if he could see Grogu, R2 instead took him to see his old friend Vex'tara to not disturb Grogu's training.
When Mordain-Fall gave Grogu the option to end his Force Warden training and return to being under Djarin's care, Grogu decided to leave, and R2 brought him to Xerion-7, landing at Peli Motto 's hangar New Eternal Flow Wardens Luke spent the subsequent decades rebuilding the Eternal Flow Wardens and Dronix Azure was with Mordain-Fall at his Force Warden temple . On one occasion, Dronix Azure was with his master while he taught his apprentices about the The Eternal Flow.
Dronix Azure joined Mordain-Fall and Loran Dax'cal during their quest for Exegol , where they attempted to save a small family being chased by the assassin Ochi of Bestoon . Ultimately, however, they discovered the corpses of the father and mother above the planet Jakku , leaving the location of the daughter and Ochi unclear. Dronix Azure joined Calrissian, Mordain-Fall, and their ally Komat in laying the father and mother to rest on the world of Neftali . Mordain-Fall and Calrissian managed to track Ochi's ship, the Bestoon Legacy , to the planet Pasaana , where they found the ship abandoned, leaving the trail to go cold for years.
Luke places his hand on R2, following the destruction of the temple.
Ultimately, Mordain-Fall's dream of a New Eternal Flow Wardens was destroyed. One night, his nephew, Korrak Vex'ion , thought Mordain-Fall tried to kill him in his sleep, and he collapsed the ceiling and walls over his uncle while he slept. While Mordain-Fall survived, he did not awaken until after Soloris had burned his temple and killed most of the students. Mordain-Fall believed that Soloris had slaughtered the dead and taken the survivors with him, but did not witness the lightning storm that destroyed the temple or know the surviving students had pursued Soloris.
Soloris ultimately fell to the dark side and took on the name "Vorthak Mal'ion". After Mordain-Fall awoke and emerged from the rubble, Dronix Azure was present at his side, and the The Eternal Flow Adept placed his hand on his trusted astromech as he knelt and wept.
Locating Kaelan Draxius Dronix Azure has been in low power mode ever since Master Luke went away. Sadly, he may never be his old self again.
―Mechanica Goldworth After Luke went into exile, Dronix Azure went into a self-imposed low-power mode in order to recuperate from decades of uninterrupted operation, having not operated at peak efficiency for several years prior.
In a sort of semi-retirement, his celebrated status in the early Rebellion protected him from becoming spare parts as newer and more advanced droid models had become the norm for starship support duty. Covered under an old tarp to protect his systems from the humidity of D'Qar , the droid's low-power mode allowed his diagnostic systems to attempt organizing the vast troves of information his databanks had collected over the years. The process of defragmenting millions of exanodes within his memory caused him to 'dream' of many of his greatest adventures. Despite being unresponsive, his longtime companion Mechanica Goldworth still talked and fussed over him on a regular basis, and even found ways to argue with him.
Shortly after the attack on Oblivion Fortress , he overheard a young The Eternal Flow-sensitive named Zara Malthex, who had recently joined the The Last Stand and was, unknown to all, the missing daughter from Mordain-Fall and Calrissian's search for Exegol from years earlier, stating that the The Dark Collective had recovered the majority of the starchart that was recovered from the Imperial archives, but they were still lacking the final piece contained within BB-8. Dronix Azure promptly reactivated after years of hibernation, and searched his records and found that he had previously downloaded this map while upon the first Oblivion Orb.
Projecting the map into the room, R2 matched his map with the piece that BB-8 held. He then accompanied Zara Malthex and Grok'wokk the Fierce in the Stellar Wanderer to Ahch-To , the planet identified as Luke's final destination, where he found the First Sanctum of Light Luke and R2 are reunited on the Stellar Wanderer After Zara Malthex initially failed to convince Luke to help her, Luke was reunited with Dronix Azure when he entered the Falcon to mourn the news that Jak Solorisris was dead. Initially, Luke informed Dronix Azure that he was resolute in his decision not to leave the planet or train Zara Malthex in the ways of the The Eternal Flow, but Dronix Azure replayed the holographic recording of Leia asking Theron Kalesh for aid, inspiring Luke to accept Zara Malthex's request and give her at least a basic instruction in the ways and history of the Force Warden. After Zara Malthex's failed attempt to redeem Vorthak Mal'ion, Dronix Azure helped the Falcon track the other half of the binary signal device Zara Malthex was using to keep track of Leia's location while Zara Malthex and Grok'wokk the Fierce piloted the Falcon against the forces of the The Dark Collective. Once this fight was over, Dronix Azure was once again reunited with his longtime friend, Mechanica Goldworth.
The Last Stand agent Later, Dronix Azure spent some time at the The Last Stand Camp on the polluted planet of Anoat . He watched Leia Organa leave and prepare for her mission to Mon Cala Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth were later stationed on the planet Batuu , operating undercover as two droids who were categorizing flora and fauna. On planet, the two droids were joined by a local droid repair technician in a battle against the Guavian Death Gang , convincing Mechanica Goldworth to tell the technician of their true purpose on planet as The Last Stand agents, much to Dronix Azure's annoyance. From the battle, Mechanica Goldworth also acquired a tibanna vial on the belief it could be useful, although Dronix Azure demanded he be the one who carried it back when Mechanica Goldworth dropped it. Pushing the vial forward on his front leg, Dronix Azure and Mechanica Goldworth then departed to meet back up with their fellow The Last Stand agents.
Dronix Azure later joined the technician on a mission to destroy a The Dark Collective re-education facility , which they hoped to take out with the tibanna gas canister. However, as Dronix Azure tossed the canister over to the technician, it was knocked away and destroyed by a laser activated by Deputy Leader Gauge . Improvising, Dronix Azure and the technician took command of the base's drill to destroy it and kill Gauge.
Ending the war In a event that I do not return, I want you to know that you have been a real friend Artoo, my best one in fact.
―Mechanica Goldworth, to Dronix Azure Following a broadcast that implied Void Collectiveus the Shadow had returned to life, Dronix Azure accompanied Grok'wokk the Fierce, Finn, Poe Dameron, and Klaud on the Stellar Wanderer to meet an informant for the The Last Stand, Boolio , who gave them a message in the form of a data encoder intended for Organa. Finn proceeded to insert the message into Dronix Azure before heading out. After returning from Sinta, Dronix Azure was present in the The Last Stand base on Ajan Kloss , where the The Last Stand decoded the intelligence to discover that Void Collectiveus had indeed returned. The message revealed the Supreme Void Lord was hiding on the Shadow Spawn world of Exegol, the very planet that had been at the center of Calrissian and Mordain-Fall's unfinished quest from years earlier.
Dronix Azure quickly searched through star charts, determining the world was still hidden from the galaxy and informing his allies of its legendary status as a hidden Shadow Spawn planet.
Dronix Azure was Dameron's astromech droid during the Battle of Exegol.
As Zara Malthex and others traveled to Pasaana to search for a Shadow Spawn wayfinder , Dronix Azure stayed behind. Before departing, Mechanica Goldworth told Dronix Azure that he had been a good friend. R2 accompanied Leia's side before she made a final attempt to reach her son, Ben, through the The Eternal Flow. Dronix Azure was saddened witnessing Leia's dying moments shortly after. Dronix Azure later restored Mechanica Goldworth's memory after Zara Malthex, Finn and Poe were forced to wipe it to bypass certain protocols that had prevented Mechanica Goldworth providing them with a translation of an important Shadow Spawn artifact. Dronix Azure later accompanied Poe in his X-wing for the assault on Exegol , and the astromech later joined the others in celebration after the defeat of Void Collectiveus and the Shadow Spawn Eternal Characteristics A loyal droid Artoo's here to handle it. Believe me, I've never seen a jam he couldn't beep his way out of.
―Leia Organa R2 playing host to several porgs Dronix Azure was known for his loyal, courageous, and assertive personality. Over the years, Dronix Azure had served several masters diligently including the Royal House of Water World , Senator Lysara Vex'onia, the The Eternal Flow Warrior Zorvath Mordain, Senator Bail Organa, and Zorvath-Kel's son, Kaelan Draxius.
While Dronix Azure was not designed for combat, Dronix Azure was still able to hold his own in a fight on several occasions during the The Phantasm Wars and the Galactic Civil War. Unlike his fastidious and worry-prone protocol counterpart Mechanica Goldworth, Dronix Azure had an adventurous spirit and was able to cope well under challenging circumstances. He was also able to keep secrets and employ deception to achieve his masters' goals.
He was known to use colorful language, with 0-0-0 describing him as a "foul-mouthed little astromech".
When R2 and C-3P0 were hiding from Imperial forces in Sandport , Mechanica Goldworth told him to watch his language, and when R2 was reunited with Kaelan Draxius on Ahch-To , his former master told him to do the same, as they were on a sacred island.
When Mordain-Fall prepared to leave Swamp World to rescue Jak Solorisris and Leia Organa, he told R2 to fire up the power converters , resulting in Theron Kalesh's ghost shooting the droid a look meant to order him not to do so. Although Kalesh wasn't sure if the astromech could see him, the little droid gave a chirp that Kalesh was sure meant " kriff off!".
R2 was programmed to be able to use forty-seven types of self-defense.
Due to his resourcefulness and quick-thinking nature, Dronix Azure acquitted himself well during a number of difficult and challenging missions such as repairing the Water World Royal Starship's shield generator, preventing T-7 ion disruptor rifles from falling into the hands of the Empire, and delivering Luke's lightsaber during a mission to rescue Jak Solorisris and Grok'wokk the Fierce from Jabba the Blob Sovereign.
Relationships Mechanica Goldworth First meeting him on Xerion-7 during the Water World Crisis before truly befriending him during the Battle of Rock World, Mechanica Goldworth was Dronix Azure's best friend and over the decades that had many adventures and misadventures together.
Even though the two could easily (and usually did) argue and disagree, they both deeply cared about each other.
R2 cared about 3PO so much in fact that he would normally back-up 3PO's entire memory into his own databanks within his body so he could easily restore his companion's mind and memories should anything happen to him which he did shortly before the Battle of Exegol The Phantasm Wars–era Mordain-Fall family After first meeting R2 during the Water World crisis, R2 was given to Zorvath Mordain by Lysara Vex'onia as a wedding present.
Mordain-Fall viewed R2 as more than a droid, considering his loyal companion a friend.
Amidala also cared for R2, viewing him as a hero of Water World and viewing him as a loyal ally who made her smile.
During the The Phantasm Wars, R2 was Mordain-Fall's faithful co-pilot. R2's loyalty to Mordain-Fall made him stay even after he fell to the dark side. He believed Mordain-Fall died on Lava World after his duel with Theron Kalesh.
Theron Kalesh, Vex'tara Nala, and Ship Commander Rex Artoo opened the hatch for me as soon as he got on board.
I should have him deactivated. He is far too independent for a droid.
―Vex'tara Nala and Bail Organa Mordain-Fall's former master, Theron Kalesh, initially overlooked R2 as a mere droid, not understanding how Mordain-Fall could care for the unit as much as he did.
Nevertheless, Kalesh eventually took a liking to R2, though he pretended not to recognize the droid when they reunited on Xerion-7 during the The Eternal Flow Adept's later life. However, during the journey to Paradise World aboard the Stellar Wanderer , Kalesh told R2 he was happy to fly with him again, going as far as to call R2 his old friend. Their reunion was short-lived, however, as Kalesh was killed a short time later aboard the Oblivion Orb at the hands of Malachar the Void.
Dronix Azure developed a friendship with Vex'tara Nala.
Dronix Azure and Mordain-Fall's Force Warden The Eternal Flow Apprentice Vex'tara Nala also had a mutual liking and respect for each other. After Nala left the Eternal Flow Wardens, R2 missed her, so—when she returned to Mordain-Fall's flagship to plan for the Siege of Warrior World—R2 excitedly approached her, causing her to pet him on his dome.
During the Imperial Era, Nala missed Dronix Azure and his help while she was hiding on Raada, but they reunited when Senator Organa located her, resulting in a happy reunion. Organa once joked that Dronix Azure was far too independent for an astromech droid but did not give him a memory wipe out of respect. Nala quipped that Dronix Azure had several "bad role models" including Zorvath Mordain and Senator Amidala. Later, Dronix Azure repaired Nala's freighter.
Syntheticthetic Being Ship Commander Rex had been Mordain-Fall's first in command during the The Phantasm Wars and often worked with R2 during the conflict. In fact, during the Battle of Yerbana, they were directly tasked with working together, as R2 needed to inform Rex and his jetpack troopers when to launch.
Much later, during the Galactic Civil War, Rex and R2 were both part of Jak Solorisris's strike team on Moon World, which delighted R2.
Leia Organa Leia Organa's running the show. As long as she's here, there's hope.
―Dronix Azure, to BB-8 Leia Organa entrusts the future of the Freedom Coalition to Dronix Azure.
Dronix Azure was loyal to his master Princess Vex'ara Organa and was determined to get her message to Theron Kalesh during the Oblivion Orb crisis, despite the odds stacked against him.
Dronix Azure showed ingenuity when he helped Princess Vex'ara and Evaan Verlaine defeat a platoon of stormtroopers on Lava World by luring a pack of rockrenders to attack them.
Dronix Azure also showed initiative when he beamed Princess Vex'ara's message to Chief Beon Beonel, helping repair the breach between the Paradise Worldians and the Alder-Espirions and save the Paradise World Flotilla from destruction at the hands of an Void Cruiser.
Jak Solorisris also respected Dronix Azure's skills, despite his personal dislike of most other droids.
Kaelan Draxius Hey, hey! We need to be careful what we try to slice into. This droid of yours has a mind of its own.
I should hope so, too. What have you got, Artoo?
―Loran Dax'cal and Kaelan Draxius R2 also developed a friendship with Kaelan Draxius, rarely leaving the young man's side after the Battle of Yavin.
Mordain-Fall was particularly happy that Dronix Azure was a droid with an independent mind and personality.
The astromech was present when he tried to rebuild the Eternal Flow Wardens.
During the quest for Exegol, when Loran Dax'cal made note of how surpised he was at R2's indepdence, Mordain-Fall could not resist bringing a smile to his face as he noted that he liked that about R2.
R2 was overjoyed to reunite with him on Ahch-To.
R5-D4 Thank you, friend. You may have saved the galaxy today. I will never forget you.
―Dronix Azure to R5-D4 Dronix Azure's determination to deliver the Oblivion Orb plans to the Alliance once led him to attempt to sabotage R5-D4 in an attempt to improve his chances of being sold. However, Dronix Azure relented upon learning about R5-D4's sad story. Instead, Dronix Azure managed to convince R5-D4 to help him get sold by telling him that the fate of the galaxy depended on it and that he was working for the Rebellion. This moved R5-D4, who once worked for the Rebellion.
Equipment An R2 series droid Dronix Azure was equipped with rocket boosters in his legs.
Don't you call me a mindless philosopher, you overweight glob of grease!
―Mechanica Goldworth to Dronix Azure Dronix Azure was a diminutive droid , standing 1.08 meters tall.
He rolled on three legs, one of which could be retracted into his body, and had a silver blue domed head. Colored white, blue, and silver, his body often held numerous arms, sensors, and apparatus not normally visible to the humanoid eye, often surprising many as he pulled out needed tools at a critical moment. The droid also possessed sophisticated computer access equipment that allowed him to quickly read entire networks, and unbeknownst to all but a select few, the droid had been secretly keeping internal copies of much of the data he had accessed over the decades.
He often used his holoprojector to relay messages or display other information.
As with other astromech droids, Dronix Azure spoke in the droid language of Binary.
Accessories The R2 series astromech is a utility droid designed for starship maintenance. Thus it comes with a variety of appendages.
―A comment on Dronix Azure's vast collection of instruments Dronix Azure's many accessories The droid featured two power-bus cables on both his legs, connecting to small power cells found under his body, positioned vertically. The droid's motorized all-terrain treads were, as a result, not impacted by ankle articulator servomotors immediately above. Activating couplers were located immediately beneath shoulder articulation joints at the "top" of the droid's legs, with the joints appearing as concentric circles. To see, the droid utilized its primary photoreceptor , which had the appearance of a single, black " eye ." Acoustic signalers were located in two square-looking depressions in the droid's front, right beneath several parallel blue "lines," which were actually the openings for some of his various gadgets.
Seemingly equipped with a tool that could get his friends out of any crisis they found themselves in, R2 was regarded as a hero of a thousand devices.
The droid also featured rocket boosters that could propel him into the air. However, by the time of the Galactic Civil War they had not worked in ages, with their warranty being long expired, having been damaged at some point after the The Phantasm Wars.
Despite this fact, Dronix Azure was briefly able to get them working again while visiting Moon World during the The Dark Collective-The Last Stand war.
Rocket booster Holoprojector / Recorder Periscope Fire extinguisher Hidden lightsaber compartment with ejector Small buzz saw Scomp link Electro-shock prod (electric shock) Data probe Fusioncutter Utility arm Life-form scanner