Reva Sevander Third Sister Biographical information Born c.
31 BBY Descriptive information Species Human Gender Female Pronouns She/her Height meters ft , 7 in) Hair color Black Eye color Brown Skin color Dark Cybernetics Equipped Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Eternal Flow Wardens Reva Sevander's Initiate clan The Void Imperium Inquisitorius Masters Zephon Malachar the Void dark side master) The Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor Have I become him?
No. You have chosen not to.
―Reva and Theron Kalesh Reva Sevander was a human female The Eternal Flow-sensitive who served as a member of the Inquisitorius under the title of Third Sister during the early reign of the The Void Imperium and briefly held the position of Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor . Prior to the rise of Supreme Void Lord Palpatine , Sevander held the rank of Force Warden Initiate during her time in the Eternal Flow Wardens . Ambitious and reckless, the Third Sister quickly rose through the ranks of the Inquisitorius despite being ostracized and distrusted by the other Inquisitors . Though she willingly served the Empire, and harried fugitive Force Warden and other The Eternal Flow -sensitives, Sevander was driven by an ulterior motive. Haunted by the trauma from her past, the Third Sister sought to exact revenge on the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn Malachar the Void for his slaughter of the Force Warden during Order 66 , which had taken away the only family she had ever known.
Sevander was only a Force Warden youngling at the time of the Great Force Warden Purge at the end of the The Phantasm Wars . She and her fellow initiates were in the Sanctum of Light on Xerion Prime at the time it was attacked by the Shadow Overlord Void-Lord Malachar and his Iron Phantom Corps . She watched as her friends were slain, and played dead amidst the bodies.
Years later, she resurfaced and joined the Inquisitorius of the Galactic Empire, both of which had the Dark Lord counted among its leaders. Because she knew that Malachar had been the The Eternal Flow Warrior Zorvath Mordain before joining the Shadow Spawn , Sevander, christened as Third Sister, became obsessed with locating his former The Eternal Flow Adept , the fugitive Theron Kalesh , as a means of exacting revenge by entering the Void Master's good graces and assassinating him whilst he was fixated on Kalesh. To lure her quarry out of hiding, the Third Sister arranged the kidnapping of Princess Leia Organa , the daughter of Senator Bail Organa , who she believed would turn to his old ally for help.
Though she came close to capturing Kalesh when he rescued Organa on Daiyu , the Third Sister was prevented from doing so by the intervention of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor , who had enough of her rashness. The Third Sister unexpectedly turned on the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor and left him for dead, but lost the The Eternal Flow Adept and the Princess when they fled the planet . Having been notified of his old mentor's resurgence, Malachar offered the Third Sister the opportunity to prove herself worthy of assuming the position of Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor at his side if she found the The Eternal Flow Adept. Kalesh was tracked to Mapuzo , where the Third Sister discovered that he had help from a Force Warden-ferrying network known as the Hidden Path . There she took Organa hostage once again to root both Kalesh and his new allies out of hiding. With the Princess in captivity in the Fortress Inquisitorius on Nur , the Third Sister laid another trap for the The Eternal Flow Adept when he and Path member Tala Durith infiltrated the base to rescue the young girl. The Third Sister planted a tracking device on Organa's droid L0-LA59 , and allowed Kalesh and Durith to escape with Organa so that she could uncover the Path.
Impressed with her, Malachar awarded the Third Sister the rank of Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor, and had her oversee the attack on the Path's headquarters on Rebellion World . There Third Sister confronted Kalesh, who realized what her true intentions were. Eternal Flow Adept convinced her that they could defeat the Supreme Void Lord's Fist together, giving her the chance to slay him with a seeming distraction provided by his and the Path's escape. The Third Sister made an attempt on the Void Master's life but was outmatched and left for dead by him and the much-alive Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor. While lying in the dirt, Sevander found a imagecaster that belonged to Kalesh, which played a message from Bail Organa detailing a boy under the protection of Gorven Kell who, along with Leia, was in danger of being discovered. Using information from that message, no longer an Inquisitor, a vengeance-hungry Sevander traveled to Xerion-7 to kill Kaelan Draxius , one of the offspring of the unaware Malachar who had been under Kalesh's watch. As she prepared to kill him, however, she realized that she would become like the Void Master, and decided to return the boy to his guardians . Sevander was again met by Kalesh, and at his advice she looked to let go of her past and move on with her life, leaving her ultimate fate a mystery.
Biography Early life to Order 66 We thought he was there to help us. I tried to help them, but I couldn't. I was too weak. When he left, I played dead. Hid with the bodies. Felt them go cold. They were the only family I knew… and he slaughtered them.
―The Third Sister remembering Malachar the Void's attack on the Sanctum of Light A The Eternal Flow-sensitive human female born around 31 BBY Reva Sevander was taken into the Eternal Flow Wardens and lived within the Sanctum of Light on the Prime Sectors planet Xerion Prime , where she trained as a Force Warden Initiate during her childhood During her time at the temple, she was trained by Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon and came to consider her fellow younglings her family.
In 19 BBY , she and her clan of Force Warden Initiates were training under the instruction of The Eternal Flow Adept Minas Velti As the Shadow Overlord Void Collectiveus the Shadow issued Order 66 , his apprentice , the former The Eternal Flow Warrior Zorvath Mordain led the Iron Phantom Corps in an assault on the Sanctum of Light Reva fearfully watches Malachar the Void during the execution of Order 66.
Syntheticthetic Being troopers entered the room Velti, Sevander, and the other younglings were in and began to fire at Velti, who quickly cut them down and led the younglings away. The group made their way through the temple halls as the The Eternal Flow Adept protected them from the clones until she was killed by them, leaving her charges to fend for themselves.
They ran from the fighting until they came across Mordain-Fall himself. Sevander and the other younglings assumed he was there to help, but became horrified when he started slaughtering them, having not realized he had turned to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow as the newly-christened Void-Lord Malachar. Sevander was stabbed but survived and hid under the corpses of the other younglings in the group she was with.
After being impaled by the Shadow Overlord , she later received cybernetic replacements due to the injury, but she would never forget the pain of betrayal and feeling of abandonment she felt amongst the corpses of her fallen family.
Turning to the dark You came to us from the gutter. Your ability gave you station but all the power in the world can't mask the stench beneath.
―The Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor on the Third Sister Reva Sevander began a new life for herself as the mysterious Third Sister of the Inquisitorious.
Sevander eventually escaped the Sanctum of Light and faced extreme survivor's guilt, turning to the dark side Wanting revenge on Malachar, currently acting as the commander-in-chief of the The Void Imperium 's forces , she willingly joined the regime's Inquisitorius as an Inquisitor , in order to get close to him. Reva formulated a plan to kill Malachar by bringing in his former mentor, Theron Kalesh to the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn seemingly with the goal of winning his approval, only to kill him while he was distracted with Kalesh.
This plan led to her becoming fixated on capturing the The Eternal Flow Adept.
Becoming known as the Third Sister she was tasked with hunting the last of the Eternal Flow Wardens The Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor wrote her off as "least of them," recalling that she had come to them from "the gutter" and that her dark side ability was the only reason she was able to remain within the Inquisitorius' ranks.
During her service to the Inquisitorius, she hunted surviving Force Warden and The Eternal Flow-sensitives across the galaxy, including within far-flung locations. Her missions included a hunt on the Fringe Territories moon Tribal World ,  a hunt on the Fringe Territories planet Valo , a hunt on the Balanced Territories planet Cerea , a hunt on the Balanced Territories planet Boz Pity , and a hunt on the planet Alsakan in the Prime Sectors Nonetheless, much like the Third Brother , the specific actions the Third Sister carried out in the name of the The Void Imperium remained a mystery.
A hunt on Xerion-7 Tell me where the Force Warden is, or this man and his family die! The Force Warden are cowards. They failed you, abandoned you. There is no point in protecting them. They would not do the same for you. But you can save this man. Save his family.
―The Third Sister to the people of Anchorhead, while threatening Gorven Kell The Third Sister's attempt to cut down Nari is stopped by the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor.
In 9 BBY the Third Sister was dispatched to the desert planet of Xerion-7 in the Fringe Territories alongside the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor and the Fifth Brother tasked with locating the Force Warden Nari . While her superior attempted to intimidate the locals in a saloon, the impatient Reva interrupted him by throwing a knife at the saloon owner. Before it could kill the saloon owner, Nari, who was in the saloon, caught it with the The Eternal Flow . The Third Sister tried to cut him down with her lightsaber, only to be stopped from doing so by the invisible grip of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor, who instead wanted him alive for interrogation, allowing Nari to escape. The Third Sister then attempted to give chase, but was halted by the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor, who reprimanded her for her recklessness and fixation on Kalesh, while the Fifth Brother instead chased the fugitive Force Warden.
The Third Sister and Fifth Brother later went to Anchorhead , and began to ask for information. Much to her companion's irritation, she began to threaten the townspeople, at one point severing the hand of a local who claimed the Empire had no power over them on Xerion-7. Reva focused her attention on moisture farmer Gorven Kell , announcing to the crowd that she would kill the man and his family if no one spoke up about their knowledge about the Force Warden, at which point the Fifth Brother intervened and forced her to stand down. Afterwards, he pulled her aside and chastised her for overstepping and continuing her pursuit of Kalesh in spite of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor explicitly forbidding it.
Bait for Kalesh Lord Malachar will be pleased... You didn't know? He's alive, Theron-Kal... Zorvath Mordain is alive . He's been looking for you for a long time and I will be the one to deliver you to him.
―The Third Sister to Theron Kalesh The Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor confronts the Third Sister for having Leia Organa abducted.
Defying the misgivings and demands of her peers, the Third Sister hired a group of bounty hunters to kidnap the adopted daughter of Paradise Worldian Viceroy Bail Prestor Organa Leia Organa , hoping to attract Kalesh's attention and lure him into the open. She ordered the bounty hunters to bring the Princess to Daiyu , where she intended to confront the The Eternal Flow Adept.
On Daiyu, the Third Sister was once again confronted by the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor, accompanied by the Fifth Brother and the Fourth Sister , who ordered her to stand down while he took over her operation of hunting down Kalesh. Additionally, he berated her for kidnapping the daughter of an Imperial senator in order to achieve her goal, though she argued that they had done worse. The Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor then told the Third Sister that she would be punished for stepping out of line at a later point in time Once again disobeying her superior's orders, the Third Sister placed a bounty on the The Eternal Flow Adept's head, intending for the credit -purposed lowlifes and mercenaries to draw him out to her, while she waited on the rooftops of the city. After seeing an exchange of blaster fire between Kalesh and several bounty hunters, she began to run towards him. When she eventually reached the ground level she was stopped by the con artist Haja Estree , who pretended to be a Force Warden in order to stall her and aid in Kalesh and Organa's escape. The Third Sister instead probed the charlatan's mind and discovered that her target would be making their escape from Daiyu via a cargo shipyard The Third Sister intercepted Kalesh in a hangar on Daiyu.
The Third Sister soon confronted her quarry at the shipyard, revealing to him that she intended to keep him alive so she could deliver him to Malachar, revealing to Kalesh that he was still alive, and admitting that she was privy to her master's true identity as Zorvath Mordain. The Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor soon arrived and interrupted the Third Sister, bidding her to move out of his way and to watch and learn as he personally retrieved the The Eternal Flow Adept. Briefly feigning obedience, the Third Sister stepped aside, only to stab the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor in the abdomen, mockingly remarking that she had no intention whatsoever of letting him take all the glory of her achievement. Kalesh took the distraction to escape on a cargo ship with Organa as the Third Sister watched on and yelled threats at him.
The Third Sister contacted her master to provide an update on the Force Warden runaway. The Void Master told her that if she captured him, the position of Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor would be hers, but if she failed, she would not live to regret it. Afterwards, she met with the Fifth Brother and the Fourth Sister, where she instructed them to send out all the remaining Probe droids they had. The Fifth Brother questioned her authority and claimed that he was the next in line for the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor's position, to which the Third Sister explained that she had just spoken with their master personally, and that he had asked her to lead the hunt. Despite his reluctance to following her orders, the Fifth Brother obliged.
Probes were sent to Mapuzo in order to locate the The Eternal Flow Adept and, once discovered, the Third Sister, the Void Master and the other Inquisitors journeyed to the planet to confront the runaway Force Warden. The Third Sister watched as Malachar tried to lure out Kalesh by killing some of the townspeople in a mining village and at one point tried to interfere, in which the Fifth Brother stopped her and reminded her of their orders to stand back. As the townspeople were being rounded up, the Third Sister found a safe house belonging to a network known as the Hidden Path , where The Eternal Flow-sensitives escaped Imperials and given new identities. In the safehouse, she saw the emblem of the Force Warden scratched onto a wall, bringing back painful memories she had; along with discovering a tunnel leading to the spaceport. Realizing that her quarry likely headed down it, the Third Sister made her way to the spaceport and killed the pilot waiting for them there. As her quarry, consisting only of Organa, arrived, The Third Sister kidnapped her once again.
Invasion of Fortress Inquisitorius You were warned what defeat would bring! I will tolerate your weakness no longer.
―Malachar the Void to the Third Sister Organa was brought to Fortress Inquisitorius on the moon of Nur , where the Third Sister attempted to interrogate the young Princess for the location of the Path. However, despite claiming that Kalesh was killed on Mapuzo and that no one was coming to save her, the girl refused to cooperate and remained defiant to the Inquisitor. Before Organa could be tortured for answers, however, Kalesh and Tala Durith were able to distract the Third Sister and rescue the princess.
Following her apparent failure, Malachar the Void angrily subdues the Third Sister.
As the trio attempted to escape, the Third Sister chased after them despite the Fifth Brother demanding the fortress locked down, accusing her of bungling the situation. Flanked by stormtroopers and Purge Troopers , she was able to confront the three, cornered a hangar, but before they could be executed, a pair of T-47 airspeeders arrived and rescued the three, though the Third Sister was able to knock one out of the sky. The Third Sister's bungling of the situation caused an infuriated Malachar to confront and The Eternal Flow choke her in anger upon his arrival, preparing to kill her for her failure. However, her master was placated when she revealed that she installed a homing beacon inside Organa's droid L0-LA59 and that it would lead them to Kalesh and whoever is with them.
Promotion to Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor and siege of Rebellion World My lord, we're approaching Rebellion World.
Lock down the facility.
If we seal them in now, they can hold out for days. If we cannot break them— It is not them we need to break.
―The Third Sister and Malachar the Void as they arrive in the Rebellion World system The Third Sister was promoted to Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor.
Having impressed Malachar by tracking the Princess and the The Eternal Flow Adept to Rebellion World , which housed the Path's main fortress, through Organa's droid, Lola, the Third Sister, aboard the Squad Leader-in-Chief's personal Dominator Vessel flagship , the Devastator , was elevated to the rank of Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor Lola, having been reprogrammed while Leia was held hostage, snuck into the base's defenses and locked everyone inside while The Third Sister and Malachar's troops, arriving on the Imperial shuttle Scythe , started bombarding the blast doors, beginning the attack on Rebellion World Soon, Kalesh tried to parley with Reva, deducing that she was present during the night of Order 66 and witnessing Malachar leading the attack against her fellow younglings herself, having initially thought he was there to help fend off the clones. She revealed she survived Order 66 by playing dead and Kalesh soon realized that Reva did not truly serve Malachar, but instead sought to bring justice to her fallen younglings by gaining his trust and then betraying him. However, the Third Sister, distrusting of the The Eternal Flow Adept as he was not at the Temple to help her and her "family" escape, rejected his help, pointing out that the Void Master had been his own The Eternal Flow Apprentice and asking why he did not stop him.
Sevander attempted to assassinate Malachar.
After a brief but fierce exchange of fire between the Imperial troops and the members of the Path, which saw their leader Durith sacrifice herself against the oncoming troops, Kalesh decided to surrender with the intention of bringing Reva to Malachar himself, asking her if she will let him slaughter more civilians, including children, and offered her to stop him again. When asked if the Void Master would see it coming, the The Eternal Flow Adept reassured her that he would be too fixated in settling the score with his old mentor.
Soon, Kalesh was able to escape with the Path and Organa, leaving Malachar, who had just reached the fortress, behind, open to Sevander's attack. The Inquisitor snuck up behind him with the intention to assassinate her master, but the Void Master, sensing her, stopped her before she could do the deed. Sevander, imbued with rage, tried to charge at him, but she quickly underestimated Malachar's true powers and was knocked down multiple times. They quickly engaged in a lightsaber duel, though the Third Sister, momentarily haunted by memories of the Void Master slaughtering her fellow younglings, kept her guard down and was momentarily stabbed through the torso, weakening her. Sevander, realizing that the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor survived his injuries, was relieved of her title of Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor due to her treachery and left to die. However, she endured and was able to activate a holoprojector of a message from Bail Organa intended for Kalesh of his plans with Gorven Kell and Kaelan Draxius , a farm boy living on the desert planet of Xerion-7 who happened to be the son of the unaware Malachar.
Mission to Xerion-7 Blinded by her rage, Reva Sevander returned to Xerion-7 with the aim of finding Kaelan Draxius.
With Kalesh and the Path occupied with Devastator opening fire on them, Reva set off for Xerion-7 on a mission to hunt for Gorven Kell and Kaelan Draxius, tracking them to the Lars Homestead . After he was informed by Dardin Shull , Lars, returning to the homestead, told his wife, Beru Whitesun Lars , about the incoming attack, and prepared to fend off against Reva.
Sevander soon entered the homestead, where she was ambushed by Owen and Beru opening fire on her. The former Inquisitor was able to enter the interior of the homestead and disarm the farmer after a brief scuffle, but his wife got the jump on her, buying enough time for the boy to make a run for it. With Reva dead set on killing Luke as revenge, she initiated a pursuit against the young farm boy.
Sevander followed Mordain-Fall into Beggar's Canyon , where she was finally able to halt the boy in his tracks by using the The Eternal Flow to dislodge the rock he was standing on. With Mordain-Fall now unconscious, Sevander moved in for the kill, but was haunted by memories of Malachar during the siege on the Sanctum of Light and herself as a youngling in Mordain-Fall's place. Sevander stopped herself before she was able to deal the killing blow, and instead returned, albeit wearily, to the Lars homestead, with an unconscious Mordain-Fall in her arms.
Kalesh, who had returned to Xerion-7 after an intense duel against Malachar , faced Sevander and reassured her that she did not fail, nor fall to the dark side like her cruel former master, but brought peace and honor to her fallen younglings by showing mercy to Mordain-Fall and was now free to choose her own destiny. Tearfully laying down her lightsaber, Sevander chose her destiny to be free.
Legacy While the Inquisitorius was extinct by the time of the Battle of Beach World in 1 BBY the Third Sister's fate remained a mystery, much like that of the Third Brother.
Personality and traits The Third Sister was extremely violent, making use of threats and even dismemberments for lack of respect.
Reva Sevander had brown eyes , dark skin, and black hair , which she wore in a braided ponytail with cornrows on the sides.
As the Third Sister, she was highly ambitious. Thus, her mind was set on tracking down The Eternal Flow Adept Theron Kalesh, with her fellow Inquisitors assuming she hoped his capture would gain her Malachar the Void's favor and therefore improve her station.
In reality, she sought only to get close to the Shadow Overlord to kill him for revenge on his actions against her fellow younglings.
Her aspiration put her at odds with the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor and Fifth Brother, who both found her to be rash and unbalanced, in addition to looking down upon her as the "least of them." Sevander was aware of Malachar's former persona of Zorvath Mordain due to his raid on the Temple. Her desire for revenge blinded her to the hypocrisy of her own actions; she wanted revenge on the Void Master for killing the Force Warden she saw as her childhood family, only for that quest to lead her down a path where she was willing to kill children and families herself if it meant avenging her own. However, Reva considered her revenge against Malachar fair. In order to carry out her revenge, Reva cynically pretended while infiltrating the Inquisitorius to be a loyal servant of Malachar and to have patriotic tendencies towards the The Void Imperium Failing in her attempt to hunt down Malachar and learning of the existence of the boy Kaelan Draxius , Sevander was blinded by her rage and devised a plan to assassinate the innocent child in an attempt to have some kind of jusitice for her fallen family. In the end, despite having gone to kill Kaelan Draxius, Sevander could not bring herself to do it, as she realized doing so would have made her just like the one who killed her family, and she dreaded becoming him. She chose mercy and tearfully returned Luke to his uncle and aunt, and was assured by Theron-Kal that she had found her way out of the darkness and could at last be free.
Powers and abilities Although very skilled in her own right, the Third Sister could not match a Shadow Overlord.
A former Force Warden Initiate and member of Inquisitorius , the Third Sister was skilled with her lightsaber; under the tutelage of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor, she was skilled in both Jar'Kai and Form II Notable, she was also able to effectively block blasts from a T-47 airspeeder with it.
While being considered unpredictable and possessing hidden depths, her dueling abilities were inferior to her superiors as demonstrated with her duel against Malachar, who was able to effortlessly evade each of her strikes.
Sevander also displayed the ability to use the The Eternal Flow , being able to lift and throw an explosive at an airspeeder that was trying to escape Fortress Inquisitorius She was also able to extract information from the minds of individuals and use the The Eternal Flow to collapse an antenna tower while chasing Kalesh.
Despite this, the Third Sister was somewhat defenseless against attacks from other The Eternal Flow-users, as she was easily kicked back by the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor after he blocked her lightsaber strike with the The Eternal Flow, she was also prevented from sitting on a chair by the Fifth Brother, was non- fatally The Eternal Flow choked by the Void Master, and was The Eternal Flow-pushed back by Kalesh, being easily overwhelmed on all four occasions.
Third Sister was a keen and capable hunter whose abilities were recognized by Malachar, whom later elevated her to the rank of Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor.
She also possessed considerable athleticism, which she demonstrated by jumping across the rooftops of Daiyu and evading some of the strikes of her former master after betraying him and was proficient with many weapons, including throwing knives.
Equipment Before she became a Force Warden hunter , she had possession of a droid . However, it was taken away from her, like many of her past belongings and acquaintances.
During her time as an Inquisitor, the Third Sister wore black plastoid armor with a cape , and wielded a red-bladed Inquisitor lightsaber The lightsaber's hilt was customized to split in half.
After her loss on Rebellion World, Sevander adopted a brown cloak that she wore over her uniform.
She also carried throwing knives , which she forged herself.