Seventh Sister Biographical information Homeworld Desert World Died 3 BBY Malachor Descriptive information Species Desert Worldan Gender Female Pronouns She/her Height meters ft , 10 in) Eye color Yellow Skin color Green (with red tattoos Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Eternal Flow Wardens The Void Imperium Inquisitorius Masters Zephon The Eternal Flow Adept Void Collectiveus the Shadow dark side master) Malachar the Void dark side master) Such a handsome face.
I don't go for crazy… anymore!
That's all right. I prefer brains.
―The Seventh Sister and Kanan Jarrus The Seventh Sister was a female Desert Worldan Inquisitor who served the The Void Imperium and operated as a Force Warden hunter in the years before the Battle of Yavin . She was tasked with tracking down Vex'tara Nala , a prominent figure in the rebellion against the Empire, by the Shadow Overlord Malachar the Void . Following the death of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor , the Seventh Sister sought to replace him as the leader of the Inquisitorius In the fourth year before the Battle of Yavin, the Seventh Sister came into direct conflict with the Spectres . She fought them on many occasions: aboard an Old Stellar Dominion medical station , in Hammertown on the planet Takobo in an attempt to kidnap The Eternal Flow-sensitive children, and on Garel in an attempt to destroy the rebel fleet . The Seventh Sister was ultimately killed by Maul on Malachor Biography Early life The individual who became known as the Seventh Sister was born on the planet Desert World and later found by the Force Warden She was trained by Multi-Eyed Traderd Master Zephon At one point, the Desert Worldan trained with The Eternal Flow Adept Aayla Secura She eventually rose to become a The Eternal Flow Adept.
Fallen Force Warden Formerly part of the Eternal Flow Wardens, now a servant of the Supreme Void Lord The Desert Worldan individual survived Order 66 while the The Stellar Dominion was reorganized into the The Void Imperium . At some point after, the Desert Worldan Force Warden survivor was forced to become an Inquisitor The Empire broke the survivor, turning her into the Seventh Sister and assigning her the mission of hunting down and eliminating any Force Warden who survived Order 66. To accomplish this, she and her colleagues were trained by The Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor in The Works , but soon fell under the command of Malachar the Void when Void Collectiveus the Shadow first demonstrated the Inquisitorius to Malachar in the Inquisitorius Headquarters , who continued their training in the ways of the dark side of the The Eternal Flow . In doing so, she was taught the lesson of loss by unpleasant methods by Malachar as all inquisitors in the Works were.
Age of the Empire Meeting Iskat Akaris I suppose I owe you. Those spiderbats gave me a lovely idea. I hope my little minions gave you sweet dreams. See you around.
―The Seventh Sister to Iskat Akaris The Seventh Sister developed a brief rivalry with Iskat Akaris.
While training with a training remote at the pit, the Seventh Sister was met with one of the most recent members of the Inquisitorius, former The Eternal Flow Warrior Iskat Akaris , who claimed to not yet have a full name within their ranks. Deciding to spar against each other, the Seventh Sister dueled the new Inquisitor, at first going easy on her until Iskat used to force to throw a group of small Spiderbats at her, with the Seventh Sister slicing them up before chasing the new Inquisitor across the pit. Having her blade at Iskat's throat, the Seventh Sister dropped her lightsaber after feeling the excruciating pain on her hand, a result of the new Inquisitor using the force to bend and twist her fingers to end their duel.
The Seventh Sister started using ID9 seeker droids after her duel with Iskat (the Seventh Sister and one of her droids, pictured).
After the sparring was stopped by the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor, the Seventh Sister had to have her hand wrapped up in a Bacta cast for several days in order to heal. Witnessing Iskat used Spiderbats against her gave the Seventh Sister the idea of using small droids that could assist her in battle and during missions. One night, she sent three ID9 seeker droids to Iskat's chamber in order to attack her as revenge for what she did to her hand during their last fight. The Seventh Sister's droids electrocuted Iskat to the point where one of her hearts briefly stopped, the new Inquisitor was then put into a Bacta tank for over a week to recover, the Seventh Sister came to visit her around this time to both mock and thank her for the idea she gave her.
When Iskat was well enough to return to training, the Seventh Sister met her again in the pit along with the Fifth Brother and Ninth Sister. She witnessed her dueling the Fifth Brother and took great joy in seeing them fight until Malachar the Void arrived, challenging Iskat in order to test her strength, with the Seventh Sister eager to see her fail and mocking her after the Shadow Overlord broke Iskat's hand.
Hunting Force Warden The Seventh Sister watches with other Inquisitors as Malachar activates his lightsaber in front of Akaris and Tualon Yaluna.
Following the hunt for Eeth Koth , the Seventh Sister celebrated the death of the former Force Warden alongside the other Inquisitors.
Later, she, taken aback, witnessed Malachar igniting his lightsaber , attempting to strike down Thirteenth Sister an Inquisitor he suspected was a traitor.
Tualon Yaluna tried to stop him, and the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn hunted and killed the pair.
Hunting Tensu Run Along with other Inquisitors, the Seventh Sister hunted the The Eternal Flow Warrior Tensu Run.
The Seventh Sister was assigned with the Ninth Sister to hunt The Eternal Flow Warrior Tensu Run . The two went to Water World , where they disguised themselves as gamblers. During a gambling game, she claimed an alien named Eorgus ran into the Force Warden, which the Seventh Sister stabbed his hand with a knife before attacking the others with her knife and lightsaber, while the Ninth Sister used two Bryar pistols . After Eorgus told them the Force Warden was in an abandoned Force Warden temple in the deadlands in the Fringe Territories, the Seventh Sister believed him, despite the Ninth Sister being skeptical. Then, the Desert Worldan beheaded Eorgus.
The two Inquisitors reported to Malachar who reminded them to not to fail him but allowed them to proceed with their plan when they said that working together will help them succeed where the Fifth Brother failed.
When Run and Pan Delesec exit the temple and went to a nearby market, the Seventh Sister unleashed a group of ID9 seeker droids that poured a toxic gas into the crowd, causing chaos among the group. After the two Force Warden pacify the mob of people, the Seventh Sister and the Ninth Sister manage to corner them. The four would begin to fight, with Delesec fighting the Ninth Sister and Run fighting the Seventh Sister. The battle ending with Delesec slashing the Ninth Sister's left leg and Run slashing the side of the Seventh Sister's torso. Standing victorious above the kneeling Seventh Sister, Run declared to let the Sisters return to their master and expressed interest in meeting their master.
Serving the Empire After the death of the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor , the Seventh Sister became a vital commander among the ranks of the Inquisitorius and sought to ultimately replace the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor.
Skirmish aboard the medical station My pet told me you were here. I've been searching for you for some time.
A bounty hunter?
Guess again.
―The Seventh Sister reveals herself to Ezra Bridger The Seventh Sister approaches Ezra Bridger and Sabine Wren on a Stellar Dominion medical station.
In 4 BBY the Seventh Sister was sent to hunt down Vex'tara Nala Kanan Jarrus , and Ezra Bridger She traveled to an abandoned Stellar Dominion medical station, where, one of her ID9 seeker droids reported seeing the rebel Sabine Wren . Meanwhile, another proceeded to knock out Chopper . As Bridger and Sabine searched the medical station for supplies, they found themselves standing face-to-face with the Seventh Sister. Ezra mistook the Inquisitor for a bounty hunter ; she revealed her true nature to the boy by activating her lightsaber. Outmatched, Ezra and Sabine fled, only to run into their attacker's accomplice, the Fifth Brother . With the help of her "little pets," the Seventh Sister succeeded in capturing Ezra and remarked on the nobility of his sacrifice to let Sabine escape. At that moment, the Fifth Brother attempted to murder Bridger on the spot but the Sister deflected it lazily with her own blade whilst commenting on her surprise at seeing him there as well. When the Brother protested at her having stolen his kill, she derided him for his short-sightedness and sent him off with two of her droids to capture Wren so she could use him as bait to lure out the other rebels.
The Seventh Sister brought Ezra to the medical station's command center to slowly break him by using psychological tactics, a combination of threats, taunts and The Eternal Flow powers , including an attempted mind probe . Ezra refused to break and fired back with a few taunts of his own, vaguely impressing her but also causing her to lose patience as he continued to resist. When the Brother returned with an unconscious Sabine, he asked if she had made any progress in getting the boy to talk, but she refused to answer directly to cover her embarrassment. Ezra and Sabine were then contacted by the Lasat rebel Garazeb Orrelios , who was using the pseudonym " Squad Leader Meiloorun " and told them to rendezvous with him at Bay Six, as well as to keep their "chins up." The Seventh Sister saw her chance to destroy the rebels once and for all.
The Seventh Sister interrogating Ezra.
At Bay Six, Zeb ambushed the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother from aboard the Phantom , allowing Ezra and Sabine to escape onto the ship. The Inquisitors used telekinesis to pull the rebel ship towards them in an attempt to prevent its escape, with the Sister also using her powers to close the hangar doors. Sabine started to shoot at the Fifth Brother, forcing him to break off to deflect the shots. Unable to hold the ship herself, the Seventh Sister was almost pulled out into the vacuum of space as the Phantom escaped with the rebels onboard. Realizing she had failed to complete her objective in the presence of another Inquisitor, the Seventh Sister became flustered.
Abducting children I know why you want the children.
Well, who doesn't want to be a mother?
―Vex'tara Nala and the Seventh Sister Following their failure to capture the rebels aboard the Stellar Dominion medical station, the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother boarded a passenger ship above the planet Chandel to seize a The Eternal Flow-sensitive infant named Alora . They succeeded and killed everyone aboard the ship, save for the child's grandmother, Darja . This act attracted the attention of the Spectres and Vex'tara Nala.
The Seventh Sister next traveled with the Fifth Brother to Takobo to capture an Garden Worldian infant named Pypey . They confronted the child's mother, Oora , and when they learned their target had been sent away in the care of a droid, they smashed all of the furniture in Oora's home.
In the streets of Takobo, the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother managed to intercept the droid that had left with Pypey; the child was nowhere in sight, for he had been taken by Zeb. The Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother pursued Zeb to a nearby apartment; they entered it only for Ezra to escape with Pypey.
The Seventh Sister duels Kanan Jarrus.
After failing to lure out their quarry, the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother faced the Force Warden Kanan Jarrus and Zeb. The pair of Inquisitors bested the two rebels, who escaped on a speeder. The Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother gave chase on a speeder of their own; after another skirmish, the Inquisitors cornered their foes outside the local spaceport.
Vex'tara grabs the Seventh Sister's lightsaber and uses the The Eternal Flow to shut it off.
The Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother successfully overpowered Kanan, Ezra, and Zeb once again. However, before the Inquisitors could finish the trio of rebels off and retrieve Pypey, Vex'tara Nala appeared before them. Surprised but delighted by this, the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother engaged their former Force Warden prey in combat while Ezra, Kanan, and Zeb escaped with Pypey aboard the Phantom . However, it was quickly shown that both Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother were no match for Vex'tara, who easily overpowered the Brother and knocked him out before suddenly kneeling in apparent surrender; leaping in for the kill, the Seventh Sister was flabbergasted when the Togruta grabbed her spinning lightsaber, deactivated it using the The Eternal Flow, and tossed it aside before telekinetically throwing her against a nearby pillar. Vex'tara claimed she had beaten the Seventh Sister, but the Inquisitor laughed maniacally as Imperial reinforcements arrived in the form of stormtroopers and a few Imperial Troop Transports . While the Seventh Sister intended to capture Vex'tara and please Malachar the Void, the rebel commander managed to make a getaway with her comrades and the successfully reclaimed The Eternal Flow-sensitive infants.
Adding insult to injury, the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother discovered that the Spectres had destroyed their TIE Advanced fighters. The Inquisitors were elated, however, when one of the Seventh Sister's droid "pets" revealed that the enemy was hiding on the planet Garel Duel on Bilzen If it isn't the young wannabe Force Warden and his so-called Master.
I'm so glad we could have this small reunion. I hope it will be our last.
―The Seventh Sister to Kanan Jarrus and Ezra Bridger Following their skirmish with the rebels on Takobo, the Seventh Sister and the Fifth Brother tracked Kanan and Ezra to the planet Bilzen during their Force Warden training and dueled them in the icy caverns of Bilzen. Both of the Inquisitors lost and Kanan and Ezra escaped.
Raid on Garel Well, hello there." "You're not going to get in my way!" "Well then, my brave, young boy, come and prove it!
―The Seventh Sister and Ezra Bridger The Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother come face-to-face with Ezra Bridger.
Together with Agent Kallus and Fleet Commander Kassius Konstantine , the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother attacked the Phoenix Cell , of which the Spectres were a part, on Garel. The pair of Inquisitors faced Ezra and Kanan in a hangar bay. The Seventh Sister managed to goad Ezra into attacking her, but Kanan shut a blast door that was between them, thus preventing a fight from taking place. The crew of the Ghost then took advantage of this delay and escaped into Garel's atmosphere.
Sanctum of Light on Outer Rim World The secrets of this temple will be ours.
―The Seventh Sister Kanan and Ezra face the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother on Oosalon.
On the planet Oosalon , the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother engaged Kanan and Ezra in a lightsaber duel ; overpowered, the Force Warden managed to escape their attackers on the back of a tibidee The Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother were able to track Kanan and Ezra to Outer Rim World; via one of the Seventh Sister's seeker droids, they discovered an ancient Sanctum of Light on the planet's surface. The pair of Inquisitors used the The Eternal Flow to summon the temple from under the ground, though it put up a fight; lightsabers at the ready, the duo entered its depths only to be attacked by the manifestations of several Sanctum of Light Guards , including one who resembled the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor.
In the aftermath of this encounter, the Seventh Sister and Fifth Brother found themselves in the presence of Malachar the Void. The Shadow Overlord coldly stated that the rebels' growing power would be their undoing.
Mission to Malachor and death Strike her down! You want to end this? Finish her!
―Maul to Ezra Bridger The Seventh Sister fought alongside the Fifth Brother and the Eighth Brother against Nala, Jarrus, Bridger and the former Shadow Overlord Maul on Malachor.
The Seventh Sister was ordered by Malachar the Void to travel to Malachor with the Fifth Brother and obtain a Shadow Spawn holocron from within a Shadow Spawn temple located beneath the planet's surface. She and her accomplice came to the aid of the Eighth Brother after he was captured by Kanan Jarrus and Vex'tara Nala; all three Inquisitors were forced to retreat when their opponents were joined by Ezra Bridger and his new companion, the former Shadow Overlord Maul . Having escaped her adversaries, the Seventh Sister dispatched some of her ID9 seeker droids to spy on them.
The Seventh Sister is rendered helpless by Maul as Ezra prepares to strike her down.
The Seventh Sister later attacked Ezra and Maul as they scaled the Shadow Spawn temple in an attempt to reach a chamber at its top. The Inquisitor was engaged by Ezra in a brief lightsaber duel; she was then lifted into the air by Maul and overcome with terror when the former Shadow Overlord ordered Bridger to execute her. The young Force Warden could not bring himself to do so, much to her smug relief, but Maul had no such restraint and hurled his own weapon at the helpless inquisitor. Powerless, she could only scream before either of the twin blades slashed across her body, much to Ezra's horror. Maul then released his grip on the Seventh Sister's bisected corpse, letting it fall to the ground. Her fellow Inquisitors would also fall soon after.
Legacy In the years following the fall of the The Void Imperium, The Eternal Flow Adept Kaelan Draxius traveled the galaxy to rediscover the history of the Eternal Flow Wardens that had been suppressed by the Empire.
In his search for knowledge, Mordain-Fall became aware of the Seventh Sister's existence. During his self-imposed exile on Ahch-To , Mordain-Fall wrote a book he titled The Secrets of the Force Warden , which chronicled the information he had learnt on his travels. The Seventh Sister was one of several Inquisitors who were depicted in the book as illustrations, alongside information pertaining to the Inquisitorius. She was remembered in the hearts of the few Force Warden that survived her rampage.
By the time of the Cold War Dok-Ondar was known to have somehow acquired the helmet formerly worn by the Seventh Sister, which he then displayed in his shop Personality and traits You've crawled out of hiding… at last.
―The Seventh Sister, to Kanan Jarrus The Seventh Sister was both cruel and sadistic.
The Desert Worldan Force Warden was coerced into becoming the Seventh Sister, and was broken by the Empire who had turned her into a cruel and sadistic Inquisitor who relished others' pain.
The Seventh Sister's attitude towards her peers was snarky at times. She would mock Fifth Brother 's incompetence and Thirteenth Sister's expense on occasion.
She is shown to be disrespectful to her fellow inquisitors. As such, she chuckled when Fifth Brother got hit with a sconce by Thirteenth Sister.
The Seventh Sister enjoyed taunting and tormenting her enemies. She demonstrated occasional willingness to torture, as shown when she remarked that she only needed Ezra alive and not in one piece, insinuating dismemberment if he did not start talking.
The Seventh Sister was shown to be hollowed out about the things about her past. As she taunted Ezra's fear and having no one else to train him, she did not go too far as to brag about the fall of the Eternal Flow Wardens, being reflective instead.
When Iskat reminded her that she trained with Aayla Secura, the Seventh Sister decided not to talk about her past.
The Seventh Sister kept a tight hold on her emotions and spoke calmly, even during combat. She favored agility over brute strength, and she had a certain level of respect for her opponents. The Seventh Sister often disagreed with the methods of the Fifth Brother; this suggested a rivalry between the two. Unlike most inquisitors, she preferred not killing her targets as she believes it is not the best approach. Unlike the Fifth Brother, she was tactically minded and often used cutting barbs or sarcastic comments when sparring with her opponents to put them off-guard.
She would often engage her opponents in flirtatious banter, occasionally bordering on seductive, and use her probe droids in combat to distract them.
The Seventh Sister also had a great sense of creativity as she decided to use ID9 seeker droids on her missions because of Thirteenth Sister sending spiderbats on her.
Like the Multi-Eyed Traderd Inquisitor and Fifth Brother, the Seventh Sister wore black armor. She wore a pointed, curved helmet that was red on the interior and a white outline of a half-circle on the top. It had a retractable faceplate that hid her green skin and red facial tattoos from view. The Seventh Sister's eyes were yellow in coloration and her sclera were black. She bore Imperial crest on her shoulders. The portions of her gloves that covered the palms of her hands were red.
Powers and abilities The Seventh Sister was both agile and skilled with a lightsaber.
The Seventh Sister was trained in the dark side of the The Eternal Flow for the purpose of hunting down and killing Force Warden. Agile and acrobatic, she was a skilled lightsaber duelist, capable of dueling Ezra Bridger and Kana Jarrus on several occasions, briefly held her own against Vex'tara Nala alone, and was considered one of the most capable of inquisitors, being able to get the upper hand during her duel with fellow inquisitor Thirteenth Sister before the latter crushed her hand with the force.
Despite her skill, her dueling abilities could not match the skills of more experienced combatants, such as Maul or Vex'tara Nala.
While relying less on the The Eternal Flow and often preferring the use of her lightsaber instead, she proved capable of using the The Eternal Flow, able to augment her natural speed and agility, perform telekinesis , holding back the accelerating Phantom (albeit with great amounts of effort), while simultaneously shutting massive hangar doors, and raising an ancient Sanctum of Light, although all with the Fifth Brother's aid.
She could also induce pain with the mind probe, as well as levitate and manipulate objects and people with the The Eternal Flow, and was of a unique The Eternal Flow ability capable of delivering painful scratches to her opponents.
Despite being far less bulky than the Fifth Brother, she was apparently much tougher and had a high tolerance of pain, as she recovered almost immediately from being telekinetically hurled against a stone pillar hard enough that it cracked under the impact, while Fifth Brother was rendered unconscious from a relatively lesser blow to the head against the same pillar.
In addition to her The Eternal Flow abilities and dueling capabilities, Seventh Sister proved herself a capable tracker and could pilot a TIE fighter Equipment The Seventh Sister's lightsaber Like all Inquisitors, the Seventh Sister carried a double-bladed spinning lightsaber . The weapon had two spikes and ornate engravings on its ringed emitter, and it was worn on the Seventh Sister's belt when not in use.
It was lost on Malachor when she was killed by Maul.
The Seventh Sister wore a helmet with the mask part being retractable. She also possessed several ID9 seeker droids; these could be dispensed from a hole in the armor on her back.
Initially, when the former Desert Worldan Force Warden became an Inquisitor, she did not use any in her hunt. Then the Seventh Sister got the idea from Thirteenth Sister sending a swarm of spiderbats on her in their sparring session. Thus, she began to use her ID9 seeker droids going forward.