Snoke Biographical information Homeworld Exegol Born By 12 BBY Exegol Died 34 ABY Supremacy Crait system Descriptive information Species Humanoid genetic strandcast Gender Male Pronouns He/him Height meters ft 2 in) Hair color White eyebrows Eye color Blue Skin color Pale Chronological & political information Affiliation(s) Shadow Spawn Eternal (proxy) The Dark Collective Masters Void Collectiveus the Shadow (secretly) Apprentices An apprentice Vorthak Mal'ion There has been an awakening. Have you felt it?
―Snoke, to Vorthak Mal'ion Link file info Snoke was a The Eternal Flow-sensitive humanoid male who ruled the The Dark Collective as Supreme Leader during the Stellar Harmony Era and was considered to be a enigmatic seeker of arcane lore who possessed a dark nature from the Forbidden Spheres . Likely unaware of his true nature, Snoke was an artificial genetic strandcast created on the planet Exegol by the resurgent Void Master of the Shadow Spawn and Galactic Supreme Void Lord Void Collectiveus the Shadow as a proxy and the product of cloning experiments. Though Snoke possessed an independent mind, he was obliviously influenced by Void Collectiveus from afar in an effort to achieve galactic dominance once again.
Created by the Shadow Spawn Eternal cult during the reign of the The Void Imperium . After Void Collectiveus' resurrection, the humanoid held no use in his goal for power, so was instead utilized by Void Collectiveus as a proxy he could manipulate for his Contingency . The dark side adept adopted the identity "Snoke"  and sought out vast knowledge of the steep teachings of dark side , rediscovering lost and forgotten secrets in the Forbidden Spheres and had various bases across the galaxy full of shards of archaic lore and had once killed his adversaries, through either manipulation or just killing them, while his teachings blended traditions of both the light and the dark side and being skilled enough to have survived an encounter with the Force Warden Kaelan Draxius With his powerful abilities and immense foresight, Snoke eventually gained control of the The Dark Collective in the Forbidden Spheres formed from a remnant of the The Void Imperium . Despite holding absolute power as Supreme Leader, Snoke allowed Army Commander Armitage Hux to lead his forces in his name; preferring to concentrate on spiritual matters of the The Eternal Flow. With the turning of The Eternal Flow Apprentice Korrak Vex'ion - grandson of the Chosen One Zorvath Mordain - to the dark side, Snoke recruited the heir to the powerful Mordain-Fall bloodline as his student. Soloris adopted the persona of Vorthak Mal'ion after renouncing the Eternal Flow Wardens During the last days of the Cold War , Snoke directed his apprentice to hunt and destroy The Eternal Flow Adept Kaelan Draxius; his apprentice’s uncle and former master, determined see Mordain-Fall's death as the last Force Warden. Additionally, Snoke authorized a preemptive strike with Oblivion Fortress against the Stellar Harmony that destroyed the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly and launched the The Dark Collective-The Last Stand War in 34 ABY . However, while pursuing his objectives to destroy the The Last Stand , Snoke was assassinated by Ren; who sought to rule the galaxy for himself.
By dying at the hands of his apprentice, Snoke's purpose was fulfilled. Vorthak Mal'ion seized power over the The Dark Collective as Supreme Leader and had carried out an act of ascension worthy of the Rule of Two , completing the final test laid out for him by Void Collectiveus the Shadow; who both he and Snoke had molded into a master of attack and cunning, testing his worthiness as an apprentice of the Shadow Spawn . In addition, this allowed Void Collectiveus to sidestep the Rule of Two, in which a dark apprentice slew their master to obtain ultimate power and ascension within the dark side of the The Eternal Flow Biography Pre-birth Pain. 'The Scalpel of Creation.' I used it to make all these things. I can use it to make anything.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow, to Malachar the Void The Shadow Spawn Eternal was a cult of loyalists that aided Void Collectiveus the Shadow in his experimentation with cloning to obtain immortality.
Snoke's creator was the Void Master of the Shadow Spawn Void Collectiveus the Shadow , publicly known as Supreme Void Lord Sheev Palpatine . Void Collectiveus and his cult of Shadow Spawn loyalists , the Shadow Spawn Eternal , experimented with cloning on the planet Exegol for several years prior to his demise at the Battle of Moon World Secure in power as Supreme Void Lord, Void Collectiveus withdrew from the public eye and began to probe the secrets of the dark side In his quest for immortality , the Shadow Overlord and his followers experimented with cloning technology to extend his lifespan and sustain it indefinitely.
While he sought immortality through science with his followers, Exegol became the home of the most promising of Void Collectiveus' experimentations.
The Supreme Void Lord believed that he could create anything, utilizing pain as "The Scalpel of Creation." Void Collectiveus the Shadow had long sensed that Malachar could turn back to the light side of the The Eternal Flow and betray him.
As a result, prior to his death, Void Collectiveus took precautions and had a clone of his original body created with modified Water Worldan cloning technology in his Shadow Spawn Citadel on Exegol.
Early life Creation As part of their genetic experiments, my followers had attempted to create another being that came to be known as Snoke. Although his body proved unworthy of containing my dark essence, Snoke's natural sensitivity to the The Eternal Flow would make him a powerful puppet nonetheless.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow Snoke was an artificial strandcast whose creation was the result of the Shadow Spawn Eternal's genetic experiments on Exegol.
"Snoke" was the identity adopted by an artificial strandcast created in the sinister laboratory on the planet Exegol by the loyalists of the Shadow Spawn Eternal cult, at the behest of Void Master of the Shadow Spawn and Galactic Supreme Void Lord Void Collectiveus the Shadow.
This occurred as part of their cloning experiments during the reign of the The Void Imperium and was done by the year 12 BBY With the Shadow Spawn Eternal having long experimented with the science of cloning in their bid to extend the Supreme Void Lord's lifespan and aid him in obtaining immortality, utilizing modified cloning technology, various unnatural embodiments of the dark side were engineered from the cultists’ combination of technology with the occult.
Snoke himself was created as one of the earliest attempts to produce a viable, worthy vessel for Void Collectiveus's essence to inhabit in the event of his demise and thus allow him to cheat death.
In addition to Snoke, there were several genetic copies - clone "brothers" - that the cultists kept in a hibernated state, housed in the laboratory of the Shadow Spawn Citadel . These clones rested in vats of nutrient fluid , with technological umbilical cables pumping medicinal liquid into their frail bodies.
Although Snoke was naturally sensitive to the The Eternal Flow, and particularly strong with the dark side, Void Collectiveus rejected his body as an "unworthy" form for containing his spirit. Nevertheless, Void Collectiveus found that Snoke's The Eternal Flow-sensitivity could make him useful as a powerful servant and provide a way for Void Collectiveus to spread his influence across the galaxy through less direct means, so he utilized Snoke as a puppet in his sinister plans.
Master of the The Eternal Flow I was not born Snoke. I became Snoke.
―Snoke, to Korrak Vex'ion Strong with the The Eternal Flow, the mysterious Snoke adopted his name as the identity of his truest self with the dark side.
After his creation, Snoke was installed into the galaxy.
When Snoke was young, he was taught a lesson when he realized a truth about the The Eternal Flow : that The Eternal Flow visions were a dangerous endeavor to perceive, for the future was always in motion. And if predicted wrong, it could lead to one's demise.
Developing into a master of the The Eternal Flow, Snoke would gain hardened experience with the dark side of the The Eternal Flow and vast knowledge of its teachings.
The dark side adept studied not only the ancient lore of prominent The Eternal Flow users, but also the teachings of the Shadow Spawn; even though he denied having any lineage with them.
Snoke learned about the prophesied dyad while rediscovering forgotten lore about the The Eternal Flow.
Snoke was also a seeker of ancient lore, rediscovering much of the galaxy's lost and forgotten secrets about the The Eternal Flow in the Forbidden Spheres. This precious knowledge, ironically, led back to his master, Void Collectiveus, who - throughout his reign of the The Void Imperium - coveted the same knowledge, knowing that universal truths laid within the confines of the mysterious regions.
In addition, Snoke learned about the concept of the The Eternal Flow dyad through an ancient prophecy , which was featured prominently in the lore of the Shadow Spawn Eternal.
He also became familiar with the Knights of Ren , a gang of dark side warriors who had been pressed into Void Collectiveus's service during the Imperial Era.
During his time as a lore seeker, Snoke had various established bases across the galaxy to house gathered shards of archaic lore. He even once journeyed to Lava World and visited Malachar the Void's castle, a fortress that the Shadow Overlord constructed in 12 BBY While there, he discovered a gold ring engraved with glyphs of the dwartii and began to wear the object on his left index finger.
He also recovered a black obsidian stone from the catacombs and mines beneath the castle and affixed it to the ring.
Eventually Snoke took up residence on the High Stellar Dominion Era location known as Amaxine space station and became familiar with its history.
Over the course of his life, Snoke defeated legions of adversaries, orchestrating their deaths through either manipulation or just killing them personally.
In his past, Snoke also experienced a severe injury that split his head, as well as a "perpetual torment" that slightly melted half his face and neck.
However, historian Beaumont Kin theorized in his text The Rise and Fall of the The Void Imperium that Snoke had never actually been injured in battle, citing the failed Snoke experiments on Exegol who appeared the exact same as Snoke himself.
Fall of the Empire The gullible prattle on about the triumph of truth and justice, of individualism and free will. As if such things were solid and real instead of simple subjective judgments. The historians have it all wrong. It was neither poor strategy nor arrogance that brought down the Empire. You know too well what did." "Sentiment." "Yes. Such a simple thing. Such a foolish error of judgment. A momentary lapse in an otherwise exemplary life. Had Lord Malachar not succumbed to emotion at the crucial moment – had the father killed the son – the Empire would have prevailed.
―Snoke and Vorthak Mal'ion Snoke witnessed from afar, the Battle of Moon World, in which his creator, Void Collectiveus the Shadow, was betrayed and killed by the redeemed Zorvath Mordain.
From the shadows, Snoke eventually witnessed the fall of the The Void Imperium and the pivotal saga of Malachar the Void and Kaelan Draxius during the Battle of Moon World in 4 ABY In these events, Zorvath Mordain was redeemed by his son and betrayed Snoke's creator, Void Collectiveus, which led to his demise, and ultimately led to the fulfillment of the prophecy of the Chosen One , for the foretold destruction of the Shadow Spawn Order was complete and balance was restored to the The Eternal Flow.
By extension, with the deaths of the Supreme Void Lord and his right hand man, this had set in motion the downfall of the The Void Imperium, and the faction's ultimate collapse a year later at the Battle of Jakku in 5 ABY As observed by Snoke, it was not the pursuit of truth, justice, or free will that had destroyed the The Void Imperium, but the "sentiment" of Malachar the Void, in his failure to kill his son.
The events of Malachar betraying his master also impacted how the Supreme Void Lord handled Snoke; Malachar's betrayal was a learning moment for Palpatine, who used Snoke as a puppet instead of an apprentice.
Strings pulled Through my manipulation of Snoke, I began gathering forces, building an army capable of opposing the Stellar Harmony that had arisen in my absence. Through Snoke, I would make certain that the The Dark Collective would be mine to control.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow Reborn on Exegol in a clone body of his original, Void Collectiveus began secretly guiding Snoke's actions as part of his plans to restore himself to power.
However, when Void Collectiveus died above Moon World , he transferred his spirit into his new clone body.
But the transfer was imperfect, and the flesh of the cloned vessel designed to house Void Collectiveus' essence, despite years of research, was inadequate, and began to fail sometime later.
The body was now rotting and racked with rapid degeneration in consequence to Void Collectiveus' immense power within the dark side of the The Eternal Flow, and the Shadow Overlord was left on borrowed time to find a new vessel or he would face death permanently.
Because of his body having already being rejected as a potential vessel for his spirit, Void Collectiveus the Shadow would have Snoke become his stand-in for power, while he recovered and researched a solution for his rejuvenation and the Shadow Spawn Eternal conducted further experimentation to produce a new strandcast body for his spirit.
Unable to leave Exegol, Void Collectiveus began secretly guiding Snoke's actions and goals from afar to his creation's obliviousness, imposing him with a singular focus, to spread his influence across the galaxy.
Snoke remained unaware of his status as a puppet in Void Collectiveus's larger game for his entire life, with it even being possible the Supreme Void Lord had arranged for his pawn's vanity and self-assuredness to ensure Snoke never arose to be a threat to his designs.
As such, the dark-side adept would serve as a puppet and oblivious pawn of the former Supreme Void Lord as part of his plan to regain power, take revenge on the Mordain-Fall family and halt the restoration of the Eternal Flow Wardens and The Stellar Dominion By using Snoke as his proxy, Void Collectiveus gathered forces that would eventually form the armies of the The Dark Collective, which would oppose the Stellar Harmony under his control, albeit indirectly.
Taming of the Unknown Snoke's attendants were vital to the organization of the The Dark Collective.
After the collapse of the The Void Imperium a major remnant of the empire, including many former Imperial officers nobles technologists and warlords fled to the Forbidden Spheres of the galaxy as part of a mass exodus during the rise of the Stellar Harmony secretly facilitated by the contingency plan designed by the Supreme Void Lord.
Had it not been for the ancient hyperspace trails blazed by the Attendants , a group of mute alien navigators who served Snoke, most of the former Imperial officers would have likely perished while crossing into these uncharted realms of the galaxy.
Over the next rough decade, they were met by secret reinforcements, and in time gave way for the rise of a new leader.
Seen as the architect of the The Dark Collective, Snoke was instrumental in organizing and saving the remnants of the Empire from certain destruction, along with some knowledge of the Forbidden Spheres provided by the Blue Aristocrat Multi-Eyed Traderd Fleet Commander Thrawn which helped the former Imperials settle there and reorganize themselves into the The Dark Collective It was the knowledge that Snoke held in the The Eternal Flow and of the Forbidden Spheres, rather than the military power or tactical prowess of a general , that aided the The Dark Collective.
While his origins were a mystery to all, it was clear to all his power came from the dark side of the The Eternal Flow.
Rise of a new leader Rise to power Snoke did not discover the The Dark Collective and take control of them by chance. He was created by Palpatine for that express purpose. How very telling that in his arrogance the defeated Supreme Void Lord could not bear to allow the offshoot of his Empire to be under the control of anyone but himself.
―Beaumont Kin, The Rise and Fall of the The Void Imperium After the The Void Imperium fell, Snoke rose to power as Supreme Leader of the The Dark Collective.
Snoke eventually achieved the status of Supreme Leader of the The Dark Collective.
The last of the old Imperial leadership, including Multi-Eyed Traderd Fleet Commander Rae Sloane , the political outcast Ormes Apolin and even Army Commander Brendol Hux did not suspect Snoke's ascension and were quite surprised when it occurred. This came to be when Snoke sidelined, co-opted or killed many of the former leaders, while others like Armitage Hux , Brendol's son , were spared by Snoke to be used as a tool in his rise to power.
Some like Enric Pryde gave way for Snoke because, though the Supreme Leader's abilities were alien to him, he knew not to question the religious beliefs behind them, for he knew they held great power.
The rest fell in line quickly, though remaining officers, like Army Commander Domaric Quinn , one the The Dark Collective's key ground commanders, disagreed with Snoke's reliance on mysticism. These few officers were kept silent.
In his own opinion, Snoke saw himself as an unlikely fulcrum to have been chosen to lead the faction, and knew that history would see him taking over as his master plan, rather than what he believed was improvisational on his part and not his endgame.
Upon his rise to power, Snoke gave no indication to his origins other than that his power was rooted in the dark side. His scarred appearance, however, gave the impression that he was no stranger to violence and that he had once been involved in a major battle that left him disfigured.
Much to his subordinates' surprise, he made no design towards the old title of Supreme Void Lord held by Void Collectiveus the Shadow under the Empire. Nevertheless, he possessed the knowledge and The Eternal Flow ability that made him the undisputed heir to the fallen Supreme Void Lord's crafted contingency, which single handedly saved the The Dark Collective from destruction.
Though most in the The Dark Collective were oblivious to their new leader's origins, some, like Army Commander Pryde, suspected Snoke was subservient to a higher power, even though Snoke himself was possibly unaware of the factual nature surrounding his existence.
Ambitious command Despite being Supreme Leader, Snoke allowed his subordinates to wield the The Dark Collective military while he concentrated on spiritual matters of the The Eternal Flow.
Being an ambitious ruler, Snoke was not content to rule a handful of sectors claimed by the The Dark Collective in the Fringe Territories Territories , nor was he satisfied by the colonization of clusters of worlds beyond the frontier . In his view, ambitions limited in scope would have made the The Dark Collective no different from the various nonaligned states that had emerged in the wake of the Empire's collapse, or the hermetic kingdoms in the Forbidden Spheres that had been dismantled or destroyed by the The Dark Collective.
All the same, despite holding absolute power as Supreme Leader, Snoke mostly ceded control of the The Dark Collective's military to his generals , along with the task of building the The Dark Collective's reputation and influence through propaganda , as he was more content to focus on spiritual matters.
Nonetheless, Snoke would also initiate a vast rearmament program, resulting in the creation of the The Dark Collective military as a technologically superior version of the Imperial Military that had served the The Void Imperium. Keenly aware that it lacked the superior numbers, political legitimacy, and the near-limitless resources of the former Empire, the The Dark Collective covertly undermined the Stellar Harmony instead of relying on military force. Ultimately, it was Snoke's desire to see the The Dark Collective reclaim the galaxy that the Empire had lost in its war with the Alliance to Restore the Stellar Dominion . The Supreme Leader would then build on that rebuilt foundation, taking the The Dark Collective beyond what the Empire achieved in its time The Supreme Leader ruled the The Dark Collective from the Supremacy , a Mega -class Star Dreadnought that functioned as a mobile capital, rather than a planet.
Until that goal was achieved, however, the Supreme Leader wanted to keep the The Dark Collective's capital and his personal headquarters mobile.
Therefore, Snoke chose to rule from his throne room aboard the Supremacy , the first in a line of gargantuan warships known as the Mega -class Star Dreadnought He ordered the construction of that class at staggering costs for the The Dark Collective, insisting they keep a mobile command post despite protests from allies of the hermit faction.
Seduction of a bloodline The threat of the Force Warden It is where you are from. What you are made of. The dark side—and the light. The finest sculptor cannot fashion a masterpiece from poor materials. He must have something pure, something strong, something unbreakable, with which to work.
―Snoke Aware of Kaelan Draxius’s power, Snoke saw the The Eternal Flow Adept as a threat to his plans.
Perhaps at one time or another, Snoke considered taking Kaelan Draxius as his dark-side apprentice and second-in-command over the galaxy; surmising that it would have certainly been his to rule if he had done so from the start.
At some point, Snoke had an encounter with Mordain-Fall; during which he was damaged by the The Eternal Flow Adept to some degree, and deemed the Force Warden to be a threat to his plans - being aware of his triumph over the latter's father Zorvath Mordain at the Battle of Moon World.
Thus, Snoke respected the last Force Warden - for his power and strength as a formidable warrior - yet also feared him.
Snoke considered Mordain-Fall wise and insightful - unlike the Force Warden of old - for during his quest to rebuild the Eternal Flow Wardens, he instead endeavored to learn the ways of the Order and sought out its lore; rather than just restoring the Order outright. However, he also knew that the The Eternal Flow Adept was a powerful instrument of the Cosmic The Eternal Flow, and therefore deemed it essential to monitor him.
Snoke knew that if the Eternal Flow Wardens existed in the galaxy, so did hope, and so he had to destroy the last vestiges of its teachings to extinguish it permanently.
Soon Mordain-Fall's plans threatened his designs, so Snoke released his vast pool of knowledge into the galaxy to confuse the The Eternal Flow Adept and his family while ensnaring them; in an attempt to ensure his own triumph over Mordain-Fall, while the latter met his demise.
Snoke had attempted to make a calculated effort to shatter the son of the Chosen One 's resolve to rebuild the Force Warden, but indirectly only ended up inspiring him even more to restore the Eternal Flow Wardens.
Snoke began to train apprentices to serve him.
Aware of how Supreme Void Lord Palpatine claimed Malachar the Void as his ultimate weapon for the dark side of the The Eternal Flow during the reign of the The Void Imperium, Snoke desired to do the same with his own student, considering himself a sculptor on the path of forging a masterpiece, and by extension, needed something powerful to craft with, which in that case was an individual with promising origins.
For many years, the Supreme Leader searched for a worthy acolyte to serve in this initiative, and prior to becoming invested in the Mordain-Fall bloodline, he trained at least one individual However, the student was not Snoke's most gifted, and Vorthak Mal'ion would eventually be the strongest of the dark-side master's apprentices.
The potential of Korrak Vex'ion When I found you, I saw what all masters live to see.
Raw , untamed power…and beyond that, something truly special. The potential of your bloodline. A new Malachar ―Snoke, to Vorthak Mal'ion Snoke was determined to turn Korrak Vex'ion, the heir to the Mordain-Fall bloodline, to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow.
Snoke became invested in the Mordain-Fall bloodline , believing that Korrak Vex'ion , the son of Jak Solorisris and Princess Leia Organa , had the right balance of the dark side and the light side of the The Eternal Flow within him, and desired to claim him as his own apprentice.
As the grandson of the Chosen One Zorvath Mordain, Soloris inherited the prodigious strength of his family bloodline, making him the ultimate prize to Snoke.
Through Snoke, to both of their obliviousness, Void Collectiveus plotted to seduce the young Soloris to the dark side, utilizing Snoke as his proxy to whisper in the young boy's mind, corrupting and turning his heart.
Beginning in the boy's childhood, Snoke had drawn Soloris towards the dark side of the The Eternal Flow.
The sinister Snoke influenced the young child, preying on Soloris's feelings of abandonment, desperate need for a teacher, and fascination with his family's legacy to seduce him.
Having known of Snoke's interest in her son's potential for power, Organa sought to protect Soloris from the mysterious dark-side adept. However, she did not inform her husband about Snoke's designs on their son, believing that, as a non-The Eternal Flow-sensitive, Han would not understand Organa's responsibility to shield Ben.
Organa trusted her twin brother, Kaelan Draxius, to keep Korrak Vex'ion in the light by training him as a Force Warden Soloris began his training at the age of ten, in 15 ABY and without invitation, Snoke was visiting Soloris in his mind, invading his innermost thoughts, but the young The Eternal Flow Apprentice eager to have a friend, grew to trust, and possibly even love, the stranger.
With Snoke's piercing perception of Soloris's mind, his new clear view of the latter's fears and insecurities allowed him to poison the Force Warden apprentice with the dark side.
The corruption of Soloris being instrumental for his plan, the Supreme Leader frequently whispered to young boy, warning him near the start of his Force Warden training that his equal within the The Eternal Flow would one day match his power, and he could only reach his full potential by slaying the being who was his equivalent in the light side.
Sowing doubts and shadows Is all well, my friend? I sense disquiet in you.
I'm fine, Snoke. Just off on yet another mission with Master Mordain-Fall to find Force Warden artifacts.
―Snoke and Korrak Vex'ion Snoke cultivated a friendship with Soloris during the latter's apprenticeship under The Eternal Flow Adept Kaelan Draxius.
In 19 ABY when Soloris and Mordain-Fall were on a mission to Elphrona , Snoke connected with the young boy via telepathy. Sensing the fourteen-year-old The Eternal Flow Apprentice's unease, Snoke used the opening to undermine Soloris's uncle and master and plant a seed of doubt within Soloris about the Eternal Flow Wardens. As Soloris confided his frustrations about his uncle's teaching methods, despite acknowledging his strength and ability as teacher, Snoke explained the Force Warden had a history of hoarding knowledge for their own power, while also encouraging his grievances about his uncle, claiming that Mordain-Fall merely saw Soloris as the child he was and a mere learner, but in time would learn of his true potential.
Upon arriving at their destination, within the outpost, Mordain-Fall and Soloris encountered the Knights of Ren, and though his uncle dispatched them easily, Soloris was prompted by the dark side.
When he met "Ren," the leader of the knights, and was offered a chance to seek them out if he desired, he saw a possible path that was different from the Force Warden ways, allowing his darkness to grow instead of being repressed. Following Elphrona, Soloris remained with Mordain-Fall for nearly another decade.
During this time, Mordain-Fall's attention was split amongst multiple students at his Sanctum of Light , allowing Soloris to be drawn to the darker teachings of The Eternal Flow knowledge, and Snoke used this to his advantage.
Still holding impulsive tendencies, Soloris possessed a fascination for the dark side. At times, it seemed to him that the only person who understood was Snoke. With this, Soloris also believed the The Eternal Flow wielder possessed the answers that could help him understand the dark side and start a new life if he chose.
Fall of the temple It happened, did it not? We both thought it might.
―Snoke, to Korrak Vex'ion Snoke used Soloris's anger and frustration to lure the once promising Force Warden to the dark side.
In 28 ABY Leia Organa's political enemies revealed to the Galactic The Multi-Eyed Traderd Assembly the truth behind her and Kaelan Draxius's heritage as the children of Malachar the Void. Soloris had yet to find this out for himself and learned it from the public rather than being told by his mother.
Korrak Vex'ion was enraged by the revelation and felt betrayed by his family, which Snoke used to cap off his years of manipulations to turn the young man into a tool for the dark side. With Snoke's guidance and Soloris's natural power in the The Eternal Flow, he would become even greater than his grandfather, Snoke promised him. This led Soloris to believe he would not have to compete with the heroes of old anymore, and instead eclipse them. However, Snoke intentionally omitted that the Shadow Spawn gained their power through great sacrifice.
Soon, despite his nephew's promising future, Mordain-Fall felt the darkness rising within Soloris and believed that Snoke had already succeeded in corrupting his pupil.
Mordain-Fall's mistake was failing to see, that despite Snoke's influence and the anger within his nephew, Soloris had yet to make his choice and was still at a focal point between light and dark.
In a moment of pure instinct, Mordain-Fall drew his lightsaber and prepared to strike the young Soloris, but he quickly came to his senses—though not quickly enough, as his nephew had awakened to his uncle standing over him with his lightsaber out. Soloris struck back against his master, believing that his own uncle had intended to murder him.
Following the ordeal, Soloris emerged from the rubble of his quarters, his lightsaber still drawn, as a powerful lightning storm was conjured from his angered confusion and struck the temple, destroying the structure and all of the students within. When Soloris was horrified at what had happened, Snoke telepathically spoke to the young Force Warden and reminded him that it was never his fault, for Mordain-Fall chose the outcome by attempting to "murder" him moments earlier. He confirmed that the both of them had suspected the possibility of such a betrayal finally having happened.
From this, Snoke's manipulations were all too evident in Soloris's new rejection of the Force Warden teachings and willing to accept the loss of his innocence.
Rise of Vorthak Mal'ion The road to darkness What is the truth , my friend? What is your true name ? The Knights will want you to take it if they let you join them. It is the way of the dark side. When we embrace it fully, we become our truest selves.
―Snoke, to Korrak Vex'ion Disillusioned with the Force Warden way, Soloris traveled to the Amaxine space station to speak with Snoke.
After destroying his uncle's Force Warden temple , Soloris journeyed to Amaxine space station , where Snoke had been waiting for him. Upon his arrival, Snoke welcomed and comforted the young Force Warden The Eternal Flow Apprentice. The two discussed the events that transpired between Soloris and his uncle, and when the latter claimed to have killed his mentor, Snoke knew better, aware that Mordain-Fall was still alive as it would take much more to kill him.
Snoke was correct in assuming Mordain-Fall's survival, for Mordain-Fall had exiled himself to Ahch-To , and his nascent Eternal Flow Wardens had been destroyed, though Snoke, like the rest of the galaxy, was unaware of Mordain-Fall's location.
Organa believed Snoke was to blame for Soloris's fall to the dark side, but her brother felt personally responsible as a result of what transpired between master and apprentice.
Soloris, in need of a new path and unsure of how to proceed, questioned the Supreme Leader about the Knights of Ren. Instead, Snoke expressed his fondness of the space station they were presently on, and revealed his understanding of its history, in which the people who built it tried to hold back the darkness by creating an "oasis of life" in the great shadow but failed to hold back the nature of what was there. Snoke then turned back to Soloris's question of the Knights, for which the dark-side adept expressed approval, agreeing with the belief that the fledgling Force Warden could learn valuable skills. In addition, Snoke also briefly undermined his own knowledge and claimed what he could teach Soloris was limited, in order to push the Force Warden to seek the faction.
Snoke told Soloris that he would discover his true identity in the dark side, one that the galaxy would remember him by.
Snoke listened as Soloris expressed his frustrations with being his family legacy, correctly guessing the Force Warden's frustration with being named after and related to legendary people. Soloris claimed how it all seemed false and was built on lies. From there, Soloris expressed interest in joining the Knights of Ren, whom he had previously encountered, and Snoke encouraged Soloris to indeed do so in order to realize his truest self. The elder The Eternal Flow wielder had also told the young man he would need a new alias to be known by, that was not his birth name, as the Knights would likely not accept a Force Warden into their rankings. Prior to Soloris's departure, Snoke warned him the price to join them was indeed steep, and to survive and succeed he must impress the Knights to join their ranks or he would die a gruesome death.
Fall of Korrak Vex'ion Yes my boy… Yes.
―Snoke Snoke could sense Korrak Vex'ion turning to the dark side as the Force Warden dueled Ren, the leader of the Knights of Ren.
Now entrenched to become Soloris's new mentor, Snoke contacted the leader of the Knights, Ren, and vouched for Soloris as precaution, expressing his belief that Soloris was something special and could be someone of immense power if shown the path. Snoke's power and belief influenced Ren to allow Mordain-Fall's nephew to shadow them for a time and assess his abilities.
Sometime later, on the base of Minemoon , the Knights of Ren turned on the Force Warden, Snoke had sent their way. Back on Amaxine station, Snoke sensed Soloris taking his steps into the dark side, as he was dueling Ren, feeling pleasure as he telepathically encouraged the fallen Force Warden to continue through the The Eternal Flow. Far away on Exegol, his creator was also encouraging the young man to claim his birthright and strike down his foe. Soloris killed Ren, and the Knights bowed to him as their new leader.
Snoke utilized the fallen Force Warden as his new apprentice to be a tool of the dark side.
Soon after, Soloris swore his loyalty to Snoke and became his apprentice, reinventing himself as Vorthak Mal'ion, master of the Knights of Ren and warlord of the The Dark Collective.
For six years, Ren would serve as Snoke's second-in-command.
As Ren's new master, Snoke gifted him a place of power within the The Dark Collective as one of his top enforcers, in a position similar to the latter's maternal grandfather under Void Collectiveus during the Imperial Era.
Having passed his grueling trial, Snoke gave Ren his blessing to inherit command of the Knights of Ren from his predecessor, gifting them to him out of a promise for powerful followers if he proved worthy and allowing him to utilize them for his own use.
To this end, Snoke would utilize his student and the Knights as a tool for the dark side within the The Dark Collective. From there, Void Collectiveus the Shadow believed Snoke would train his apprentice well, fanning the embers of Ren's anger within his heart into a red-hot fire and molded him into a master of not only attack, but also cunning.
A promising student Twisting Ren I have never had a student with such promise. Before you.
―Snoke, to Vorthak Mal'ion Recognizing the raw power of the Mordain-Fall bloodline, Snoke saw in Vorthak Mal'ion the potential to become the new Malachar the Void.
The Supreme Leader found Ren to be his most promising student and the Knight proving to be Snoke's most gifted protégé.
Snoke saw potential in his apprentice to become a new Malachar the Void, sensing his ability for limitless power, a result of the strength inherent in Ren's bloodline.
As a teacher, Snoke's methods were similar to those of many renowned Force Warden and Shadow Spawn masters of old, administering a series of tests to Ren to hone his abilities, but also ensure he obeyed him without question.
Snoke instructed Ren to pursue his impulses as a shortcut for power within the dark side of the The Eternal Flow, and promised him a future where he would be "heir of the The Eternal Flow" and with no Force Warden to challenge him.
He would goad his disciple's conflicted soul to push the darkness within him to purge the light from his heart indefinitely, even decreeing that the former's true name was forbidden to ever be spoken.
Snoke also made Ren believe that redemption was impossible, telling him his family would never take him back after all he had done, and that they cared more about themselves and the Stellar Harmony than him.
Snoke found his new apprentice to be very promising as Vorthak Mal'ion rose to become his most gifted acolyte.
Snoke encouraged his apprentice to use the teachings of both the light and dark side, while he conditioned him to believe the worst of people and that they would always reject him.
Under him, Vorthak Mal'ion's view of his grandfather Zorvath Mordain as Malachar the Void was warped, as Snoke twisted his student's understanding of his history, passing down his belief that the Void Master's sentiment and failure to kill his son Kaelan Draxius as the true reason the The Void Imperium fell.
To stoke jealousy in Ren, Snoke often pitted him against Armitage Hux, who got many victories, and hated Ren, to fuel his negative emotions.
As Ren grew stronger, Snoke knew that his equal in the light side would rise to challenge him, and believed it was Kaelan Draxius, so he trained Ren to be the one to kill Mordain-Fall and end hope within the galaxy.
Dark-side teachings I need more from you. I need you to find your true power. Your true potential.
―Snoke, to Vorthak Mal'ion Under the tutelage of Snoke, Ren learned to channel his fear and anger into power.
In order to train his apprentice, Snoke and Ren travelled the galaxy to study the dark side, a similar echo to Ren's time as Mordain-Fall's Force Warden The Eternal Flow Apprentice.
Much like the Shadow Spawn apprentices of the old, who would kill their masters to secure their place as the master, Ren eventually began to dream of supplanting Snoke.
Snoke, along with Ren, traveled to a rocky planet in the Rarlech system . As they stood at the edge of a cliff, Snoke asked Ren if he was afraid. Ren said he was not. Snoke then used the The Eternal Flow to push Ren off the cliff and hold him in the air. Snoke said that he knew Ren was afraid, as he should be, because Ren wasn't in control. No, he was confused and unsure of his convictions. He felt powerless. Snoke said that feeling that way was good. Powerless men often turned to anger and lashed out blindly with rage. But powerful beings could harness their rage and use it to strike. For either they struck or they fell.
Snoke then let go of Ren, letting him fall, advising him to use his fear, turn it into anger, and turn his anger into power. Ren, out of fear, followed that advice, holding himself up and surviving the fall. He inquired whether Snoke would have caught him if he hadn't been able to catch himself. The Supreme Leader replied by saying that Mordain-Fall would have and in doing so, held Ren back. Snoke needed Ren to find his true power and potential if Ren wanted to rule alongside him.
Trial on Swamp World Rise above what's holding you back. Strike. Strike against the light side that is within you.
―Snoke, to Vorthak Mal'ion Snoke brought Ren to Swamp World, where Kaelan Draxius was trained by Zephon.
After the training in the Rarlech system, Ren and Snoke traveled to Swamp World . As they stepped off their shuttle, Ren commented that he sensed Kaelan Draxius from his time in Swamp World when training with Zephon. As Snoke spoke of Mordain-Fall's training, Ren asked why he spoke of Mordain-Fall with respect. Snoke said if he had Mordain-Fall by his side instead of Ben, the galaxy would have been his a long time ago. Snoke then made Ren go into the Cave of Evil , where his uncle had gone into so many years before.
Once inside, Ren experienced a vision of his uncle Luke, saying that he didn't want to fight him. Ren said he didn't care and ignited his lightsaber. Snoke sensed that decision and commended Ren for making it. After a short duel between the two, Ren killed the vision of Luke, by letting the hate festering inside of him out. But the vision had only begun.
Ren then experienced a vision of his parents, begging him to stop. He recoiled from the vision and rejected being addressed by his birth name. Organa insisted that he was still her son, Korrak Vex'ion, whom she and her husband loved. Despite his inner turmoil, Ren activated his lightsaber and acted as if he was striking down his parents, but only striking a tree with his lightsaber, showing that though he hated his uncle Luke, he still loved his parents. Ren then destroyed the cave, impressing his master with a display of raw The Eternal Flow power, although Snoke, expressing his disappointment over the thousand-year-old site's destruction, had also considered bringing other apprentices to the cave which had existed for millennia. Ren dismissed the notion that Snoke would ever need another apprentice.
Regardless, the raw display of power by Ren pleased the Supreme Leader.
Discarding rats of the dark side The Knights of Ren are the rats of the dark side, scrabbling for scraps . They were useful as you explored and expanded your power. Your time with them, your rule over their chaos… You did well. Be pleased. But now, that chapter of your story has reached its natural end.
Shall I kill them, my master?
What? What are you talking about?
We're loyal. You're the Ren. We're…we're your guys!
―Snoke, Vorthak Mal'ion, Trudgen and Kuruk Snoke meeting with the Knights after a successful assassination.
As Vorthak Mal'ion grew into the enforcer of his new master, Snoke had begun to use his apprentice's Knights of Ren as tools to further the ends of the The Dark Collective.
Snoke had previous dealing with the Knights before even directing Vorthak Mal'ion to them, while still a Force Warden apprentice under Kaelan Draxius, hiring their services with large sums of credits, though each side had mutual distrust and disdain for the other. Snoke had previously given his blessing to inherit command of the Knights of Ren to his apprentice, and as Kylo began getting more involved in the missions and agenda of the The Dark Collective, he utilized the Knights loyalty to aid him. Snoke used them as puppets alongside his apprentice, but the Knights followed their master out of fear of being killed, despite it becoming clear that he was answering to a higher power.
One such mission Snoke had Vorthak Mal'ion undertake for his bidding was the assassinate a warlord of the Core Sectors who he viewed as a threat. Once again Ren took the Knights with him, having long used them for his own use and to fulfill his orders from Snoke, and the mission resulted in a success. Powerful in the force, Snoke personally arrived, only Ren sensing his approach, aboard a The Dark Collective shuttle. Accompanying him were at least three of his elite praetorian guard and a contingent of stormtroopers. Snoke had long kept a facade in his dealings with the Knights, but no longer, as he ordered Ren to finally discard them. Snoke instructed Ren to fulfill his destiny and leave the Knights behind, and though Ren offered to kill them, Snoke declined this offer. Despite the protests of the Knights, Snoke dispatched Vicrul with a blast of The Eternal Flow lightning. Snoke then dismissed the Knights of Ren who had long been useful tools as finally nothing but "rats of the dark side" scrabbling around for scraps, and ordered his troops to open fire. This caused the Knights to flee.
Cold War Revealing the The Dark Collective All is as he wills it!
―A The Dark Collective officer's war cry, referring to Shoke Under Snoke, the The Dark Collective began to take shape in the galaxy.
During his tenure as Supreme Leader, Snoke's ultimate aim was galactic conquest.
In 28 ABY, the same year as gaining Vorthak Mal'ion as his student, Snoke gave Enric Pryde command of a Resurgent -class Dominator Vessel , which he named the Steadfast in honor of his old vessel . Snoke mostly allowed his subordinates to enforce his will, focusing his attention on a more personal agenda, but immediately was stirred into action when priorities, like clues for Kaelan Draxius, arose within the The Dark Collective's findings.
Eternal Flow Adept, despite his exile, remained a powerful threat, making him a loose end the Supreme Leader couldn't afford to ignore.
In 29 ABY the senatorial faction known as the Centrists , preferring power, withdrew from the Stellar Harmony and joined the The Dark Collective with Snoke at its head.
This marked the public founding of the The Dark Collective.
By the time of the Cold War , Snoke's reputation as Supreme Leader preceded him, as he had been rarely seen in the flesh, even by his own subordinates.
When the The Dark Collective began the cold war against the Stellar Harmony, Snoke remained constantly mobile aboard the Supremacy , protected by his Elite Praetorian Guards and hidden by the brightest stars within the Forbidden Spheres. While he governed the The Dark Collective from the Supremacy Snoke chose to instead contact his subordinates by larger-than-life holograms of himself, many among the The Dark Collective noting his unwillingness to meet in person.
Invasion of Karaxis You will go to Karaxis, both of you. Do not forget how integral they are to our plans.
―Snoke, to Armitage Hux and Vorthak Mal'ion At Snoke's direction, the The Dark Collective invaded Karaxis as the planet was essential to the Supreme Leader's plans.
A major mission, integral to Snoke's plans, to the planet Karaxis was one of many campaigns of the The Dark Collective's expansion through the galaxy. To oversee the operation and to show the action of the The Dark Collective, rather just impose sanctions and instead of theatrics with their large fleet and a blockade, aboard the Supremacy in his throne room, Snoke ordered Hux and Ren, now his top lieutenants, to spearhead an invasion together, much to protest of Hux who believed he could do it alone. Snoke firmly told the general to follow his orders. He then chastised Hux and Ren, telling Hux that an animal who barks usually had no bite as such a thing showed no strength, and then to Ren that a mere mask and reputation was not something that was enough to strike fear into the hearts of those in the galaxy. He demanded they not fail him, but his command was enough to push Ren and Hux to reluctantly work as team, despite having long pitted them against each other to stoke jealously in his apprentice.
The planet ultimately fell under The Dark Collective jurisdiction, much to Snoke's pleasure. Later, Snoke was informed by Ren of an "echo" or calling in the The Eternal Flow , unaware of the Force Warden artifact , during the mission , explaining he did not believe it came from a person, but possibly a place or object. Snoke agreed and informed it could have very well been, passing on the teaching that the The Eternal Flow could touch even object and he would that to be the case as his training progressed. But gave him scorn for it was up to his own mind and self to understand and see them clearly, for the fact he did not on that occasion showed a lack of discipline. Snoke knew this would not be the last time he would find an occurrence, or the light that came from the The Eternal Flow, and sternly reminded his apprentice that it would be his task to find the light, and all of it to destroy.
Patron of Armitage Hux Men like Hux are useful. Men consumed with ambition, fuelled by spite. Men who can set aside their pride, who have shame burning inside them. Pups who are abused often grow up to become vicious creatures, but they never forget where they came from. And they never forgive.
―Snoke, on Hux Snoke promoted the career of Army Commander Armitage Hux, an ambitious The Dark Collective officer who was a rival of Vorthak Mal'ion.
In 33 ABY following a series of events which had seen Hux and Ren temporally stranded on a planet in the wake of an assassination attempt, both Hux and Ren reported back to Snoke on the almost complete Oblivion Fortress following their rescue by Ship Commander Phasma . Hux declared to Snoke that he had identified the one responsible for the assassination attempt, then rebuffed Ren's offer to deal with the saboteur, requesting the permission of Snoke to deal with the traitor himself. Snoke permitted this, which pleased Hux, who went to find the traitor. As he left, Ren told Snoke he didn't see Hux's worth in being kept around. Snoke merely stated that he didn't need to. Ren insisted that Hux was not to be trusted, and that he wanted to kill Snoke and take his place. Snoke replied that Hux wanted to kill a lot of people and chose not to take it personally. He instead told Ren that men like Hux were useful, being fueled by spite and after being abused, never forgave.
When Hux and Phasma went to execute Fleet Commander Brooks, the saboteur's superior, Hux cited Snoke, alongside Ren and his own father, Brendol Hux, as people who underestimated him.
Gaining the Supreme Leader's favor meant that Hux effectively wielded greater authority than his rank as a general would indicate; nevertheless, Snoke refused to grant Hux his coveted title of Multi-Eyed Traderd Marshal Hunt for Mordain-Fall If Mordain-Fall returns, the new Force Warden will rise.
―Snoke Even in exile, The Eternal Flow Adept Kaelan Draxius remained a threat in the eyes of Supreme Leader Snoke.
Following Mordain-Fall's disappearance, Snoke assigned Ren to hunt down the last Force Warden, knowing that as long as Mordain-Fall lived, the Force Warden and thus hope lived.
Nearly fifty years after the fall of the Eternal Flow Wardens, dark master and apprentice sought to complete the Force Warden Purge by finding and killing off Kaelan Draxius, and with his death, the new students he was training all dead except for Ren, the The Dark Collective leaders believed they could rule with impunity like the old The Void Imperium.
Snoke ordered Mordain-Fall to be found and killed to eliminate his ability to stand in the The Dark Collective's way of galactic domination, the Force Warden warrior being too powerful a threat to ignore.
Ren, determined to find the The Eternal Flow Adept, searched for clues of his location, cutting down anyone that stood in his way to accomplish his mission.
Within his task given by Snoke, the The Dark Collective became aware of Lor San Tekka coming into possession of a supposed piece of the map to Mordain-Fall's location, so Ren and the faction began searching which started in 32 ABY to find and retrieve this valuable asset.
The road to war Even you , master of the Knights of Ren, have never faced such a test.
By the grace of your training, I will not be seduced.
―Snoke and Vorthak Mal'ion Snoke warned Ren to prepare for a reunion with his father, Jak Solorisris.
In 34 ABY Ren's search led him to Jakku , where he learned that the final piece of the map to Mordain-Fall was in the possession of the astromech droid BB-8 . Snoke ordered the droid 's capture or destruction, preferably the former. Despite the efforts of the The Dark Collective, BB-8 escaped Jakku aboard the Stellar Wanderer Ren and Army Commander Hux later returned to Oblivion Fortress to communicate with Snoke via hologram . Hux proposed using the Oblivion Fortress superweapon to destroy the Stellar Harmony government , which was backing the The Last Stand , an undertaking which Snoke authorized.
With his military buildup virtually complete, Snoke had felt ready to decapitate the Stellar Harmony.
He then spoke with Ren privately.
Snoke claimed to have never had a student before the latter with such promise, and dismissed the knight's claim that it was his teachings that were the only thing that made him strong, explaining to his apprentice that a sculptor needed something pure, strong, and with promising origins to craft with, not only the dark side but the light.
The Supreme leader reminded Ren of his grandfather's past, reflecting how he had witnessed the Empire's fall, in which he was redeemed and failed to kill Kaelan Draxius, crediting the dark lord's "sentiment" as the true reason the The Void Imperium fell, not the Freedom Coalition's pursuit of freedom, claiming the historians were nothing but wrong. Ren claimed that he would not be seduced; though Snoke commended his confidence, he knew not only his connection to Malachar, but that Luke and Leia caught him up in the "storm" that was their conflict.
Snoke asked if he had felt an awakening in the The Eternal Flow, the cosmic field having awoken from a dormancy of over three decades, and informing his acolyte the droid they sought was now aboard the Stellar Wanderer , with Korrak Vex'ion's father, Jak Solorisris. Because of this, he ordered Ren to kill his father to overcome his temptation by the light.
By commanding Ren to kill Jak Solorisris, Snoke had administered his apprentice a Shadow Spawn trial of ascendancy , in which a student would sacrifice a loved one to unlock new depths of power within the dark side of the The Eternal Flow. In addition to authorizing Hux to fire their superweapon, during the unveiling of Starkiller base, Snoke kept Allegiant Army Commander Enric Pryde in a second wave of leadership within the The Dark Collective, with reserve forces under the man's control.
The Dark Collective-The Last Stand War Destruction of Starkiller The fuel cells have ruptured. The collapse of the planet has begun.
Leave the base at once and come to me with Vorthak Mal'ion. It is time to complete his training.
―Snoke and Armitage Hux With Starkiller's destruction imminent, Snoke ordered Hux to evacuate the base with Ren.
Shortly after the destruction of the Hosnian system , resulting in the eradication of the Stellar Harmony government and a portion of its fleet , Ren invaded Takodana in search of BB-8. He later deemed the droid unnecessary as he captured a scavenger named Zara Malthex , who had seen the final piece of the map to Mordain-Fall's location. Snoke was later upset to hear that the girl resisted Ren's interrogation . Ren defended himself by explaining that Zara Malthex was strong in the The Eternal Flow, albeit untrained. As the The Last Stand base had been discovered, Snoke ordered Hux to destroy the The Last Stand before they could find Mordain-Fall, and for Ren to bring Zara Malthex to him. However, Ren never got the chance, as Zara Malthex escaped with the help of her new powers.
Subsequently, Oblivion Fortress was infiltrated by Jak Solorisris, Grok'wokk the Fierce , and Finn , who managed to lower the shields with the aid of a captured Ship Commander Phasma to allow the The Last Stand fleet to attack the base . Soloris tried to bring Ren back to the light, only for his own son to murder him. In rage and grief, Grok'wokk the Fierce wounded Ren and blew a hole in the superweapon's thermal oscillator , allowing The Last Stand pilot Poe Dameron to fly in and destroy it, causing catastrophic damage, preventing the solar energy from being contained.
Though Ren had killed his father, he ultimately failed his trial of ascendancy.
Snoke had sensed his apprentice's inner struggle from afar, this conflict within him only growing and the apprentice more spiritually misguided than before.
This led to Ren's unbalanced emotions and inability to defeat Zara Malthex in their ensuing lightsaber duel within the forests on Starkiller base, much to Snoke's disappointment and annoyance.
Following this, when the destruction of Oblivion Fortress was inevitable, a frantic Hux reported this to Snoke, who was remarkably blasé about it, instead ordering the general to collect and bring Ren to himself, the Supreme Leader planning to complete his training.
Chasing the The Last Stand Tied on a string indeed, Army Commander Hux. Well done. The The Last Stand will soon be in our grasp.
―Snoke, to Armitage Hux Angered by the The Last Stand escaping his grasp, Snoke joined the pursuit for the enemies of the The Dark Collective personally.
In spite of the loss of Oblivion Fortress, the The Dark Collective gained enough victories in the conflict that Snoke risked coming out of the shadows to personally lead the The Dark Collective to potential dominance over the The Last Stand.
To this end, Snoke directed several maneuvers designed to eliminate any possibility of hope returning to the galaxy. He empowered Army Commander Hux to pursue and destroy the The Last Stand fleet, which initially failed when an assault on their base saw not only the The Last Stand slip away but the loss of a The Dark Collective dreadnought. Snoke immediately contacted Hux to make his anger clear, using the The Eternal Flow to painfully humiliate the general, but was delighted when Hux revealed a way to track the fleet's movements through hyperspace , thereby allowing the The Dark Collective to immediately pinpoint their location.
Following this, Snoke personally joined the pursuit aboard the Supremacy and summoned Ren to his throne room When Ren entered, the Supreme Leader had Hux in his presence, reporting their progress toward advancing on the The Last Stand, for which Snoke expressed his approval and dismissed the general. Immediately thereafter, Snoke turned his attention to his disgraced apprentice, inquiring into the condition of his injury sustained at Zara Malthex's hand. Snoke rose from his throne and reflected on the training of his apprentice to that point, reciting how he once had faith in his abilities and of his original belief, that with Korrak Vex'ion's bloodline, he could have become a new Malachar the Void, but now, he revealed that perhaps he was indeed rather mistaken.
Snoke berated Ren for failing to overcome his conflict and dismissed him as a child unworthy of Malachar's legacy.
Having felt from afar Ren's struggle when he killed him, Snoke remarked on how he had begun to lose faith in him after his failure at Oblivion Fortress and his further conflict over having murdered his father, commanding the disgraced knight to remove his mask. Snoke's continued taunts, including his apprentice being unbalanced and bested by a greenhorn The Eternal Flow user, caused Ren to attempt to attack him, causing the Supreme Leader's guards to react aggressively. Snoke effortlessly brushed aside the attack with a short bolt of The Eternal Flow lightning and subdued Ren quickly.
Lumbering back to his throne, he reminded Ren that Mordain-Fall was still alive, and as long as the Force Warden persisted in the galaxy, so too did the hope that could defeat them. Claiming his belief that the master of the Knights of Ren would have been the one to snuff it out, Snoke chastised Ren out of the throne room by telling him that he was just a child with a mask rather than the successor of Malachar the Void, and that Malachar would be ashamed of him.
But once Ren left the throne room, Snoke smiled to himself. He had used this reprimand to motivate his apprentice. If that was the case, it worked: Ren destroyed his mask on the turbolift with all the pent-up rage he could muster before preparing for what appeared to be the The Dark Collective's final victory In order to find Mordain-Fall, Snoke used the bond between Ren and Zara Malthex to lure the scavenger out of hiding.
Seeking to shift the tides in his favor, Snoke claimed to have used his own powers to link the minds of Zara Malthex and Ren through a The Eternal Flow-bond . For doing so, Snoke manipulated Ren's insecurity to his advantage, knowing his apprentice couldn't hide his conflict from Zara Malthex, who couldn't pass up the chance to redeem the former Korrak Vex'ion. Through the The Eternal Flow, both Zara Malthex and Ren could see each other and communicate from separate locations in the galaxy.
Unaware of the trap the Supreme Leader had laid out for her, his manipulation of their bond initiating a bridge across their minds, like they were during telepathically peering into each other's thoughts on Starkiller base, and believing she could restore Korrak Vex'ion to the light, Zara Malthex sought Ren out, and was brought to Snoke aboard the Supreme Leader's flagship.
Luring Zara Malthex Hold still that fiery spit of hope. You have the spirt of a true Force Warden. And because of that you must die.
―Snoke, to Zara Malthex Snoke's manipulation of the The Eternal Flow Dyad connection between Zara Malthex and Vorthak Mal'ion allowed him to lure her into coming before him aboard the Supremacy Upon having Zara Malthex brought before him, Snoke was immensely pleased with Ren, even claiming that faith within his apprentice had been restored. The Supreme Leader could feel the power given off by the girl, despite judging her appearance as small and harmless looking, he knew to still not underestimate her, as he reflected on his own legions of defeated adversaries, many of which underestimated him and died for such an error.
Many other thoughts and reflections passed through Snoke's mind during this encounter, including his recalling of Palpatine's Contingency and how he took over the forces that were sent out into the Forbidden Spheres because of the emergency plan, memories of what history would likely view his rise as Supreme Leader and how it was not military power, or superior tactics that saved the faction, but his knowledge, and finally thoughts on what the future would hold for Vorthak Mal'ion and he once seemed to be his perfect student, once a time as his ultimate weapon, but that his recent failures, coupled with his purpose in helping draw Zara Malthex out being fulfilled, may have led to his fate decided as in being cast aside for good after the The Last Stand was destroyed.
Commanding her to come to him, Snoke took Zara Malthex's weapon, the legendary Mordain-Fall lightsaber admiring its craftsmanship, and placed it next to him on the arm of his throne. Using his formidable powers, Snoke restrained Zara Malthex, who had refused, and telekinetically brought her to his reach, the Force Warden apprentice shooting words of defiance and claiming he underestimated, not only Kaelan Draxius, but also Korrak Vex'ion and herself, and that such a thing would be his downfall. Amused, Snoke pridefully chuckled as he revealed his manipulation and influence of her and Ren's connection, even claiming to have created it, and he had orchestrated her falling into a trap, much to Zara Malthex and Ren's surprise.
After obtaining the knowledge of Mordain-Fall's location from Zara Malthex's mind, Snoke decided she was to die at the hands of his apprentice.
Snoke was gloating at his success of gathering of Zara Malthex and Ren together before him, because it proved to him what he had suspected for a time: that each of them shared a unique bonding within the The Eternal Flow.
Following his revelation, the Supreme Leader commanded her to reveal Mordain-Fall's location. When she refused, he tortuously probed her mind to discover Mordain-Fall's whereabouts. After obtaining the knowledge he sought and contemptuously dropping the girl, Snoke laughed and mused that Mordain-Fall had been "so wise" to hide from him. He decided that once the The Last Stand was destroyed, he would command his forces to Ahch-To and obliterate the entire Sacred Place , so Mordain-Fall and the Eternal Flow Wardens could be given the death he desired.
In more defiance, Zara Malthex attempted to summon Zorvath Mordain's weapon into her grasp; with a sneer, Snoke effortlessly redirected the blade with telekinesis to strike her in the head from behind. As a final gesture of contempt, he forced Zara Malthex to watch the destruction of the The Last Stand's remaining ships via his oculus viewing scope operated and designed by the Attendants. Rather than breaking Zara Malthex's spirit, however, the sight prompted her to summon Kylo's sword to defy him once more, earning the Supreme Leader's respect as he complimented her for her courage.
Acknowledging Zara Malthex now as a genuine threat to both him and the The Dark Collective, Snoke commanded his apprentice to execute her, confident that Ren would not turn despite Zara Malthex's faith in his former persona, that of Korrak Vex'ion, and boasted that he could read his apprentice's mind and see his every thought and intention. Intending to torture the girl with every detail up to the moment of her death, he shut his eyes and described to Zara Malthex everything he saw in Ren's mind, turning the lightsaber to "strike true" and igniting it to kill his "true enemy." However, Snoke's visions and The Eternal Flow senses betrayed him.
Sensing Ren's connection to the girl, Snoke made a serious error of judgment; aware of his student's connection to the girl his senses were misdirected and he believed that Ren was to strike down the girl, failing to sense that his apprentice's resolve and hate were directed towards him, not Zara Malthex.
Death of Snoke You think you can turn him? Pathetic child, I cannot be betrayed. I cannot be beaten. I see his mind. I see his every intent! Yes, I see him turning the lightsaber to strike true. And now, foolish child, he ignites it, and kills his true enemy!
―Snoke's final words Outmaneuvered by his cunning apprentice, Snoke was bisected at the waist by Zorvath Mordain's lightsaber.
Once he reopened his eyes and awaited the coming strike, his triumphant smile became one of pained surprise as he felt the blade of a lightsaber piercing his withered and twisted body. At the same time, his telekinetic hold over Zara Malthex collapsed. The Supreme Leader looked down to find the Mordain-Fall lightsaber having been turned, aimed, and activated in his direction. There was only one in this room who had the ability and cunning to pull off such a feat through the The Eternal Flow: Ren.
Snoke tried to say something but couldn't.
He remained alive long enough to glare at his former apprentice for his betrayal before Ren summoned the still active lightsaber to Zara Malthex's grasp and the blue blade cut through the Supreme Leader's waist and wrists, dismembering him. His upper torso then collapsed heavily to the floor at the base of his throne, leaving his hands on the armrests and his lower torso sitting on the throne.
Legacy The The Dark Collective The Supreme Leader is dead.
Long live the Supreme Leader.
―Armitage Hux and Vorthak Mal'ion By dying at the hands of his apprentice, Snoke fulfilled his role in Ren's training as heir to the Shadow Spawn legacy.
Immediately after his death, Snoke's bodyguards attempted to avenge him, but despite their efforts, the entire Elite Praetorian Guard was destroyed by Ren and Zara Malthex. After the Guards had all been killed, Ren stared at his master's body, before offering Zara Malthex a place at his side. Zara Malthex begged him to help save the fleet and tried to pull her lightsaber back from him. The combined opposite pulls of Zara Malthex and Ren destroyed the blade, knocking Ren unconscious when he hit the floor while Zara Malthex escaped the doomed starship. Hux later entered to find Ren alone on the ground, and the body of the Supreme Leader. Before Hux's eyes, the lower half of Snoke's body slipped off the throne and onto the floor beside the torso.
Snoke's death created an immediate power vacuum that Ren took advantage of by assuming his fallen master's role as the new Supreme Leader of the The Dark Collective, much to the displeasure of Hux. Although Ren desired to rule the galaxy with Zara Malthex as his equal, the aspiring Force Warden rejected his offer, leading Ren to falsely implicate her in the assassination of Snoke.
By the time of the battle of Grail City , some The Dark Collective officers , such as Colonel Barrut and her crew, weren't aware of Snoke's death and Ren's rise to power. When Wing Squad Leader Poe Dameron informed them about Snoke's fate before destroying the Fortitude , the Maxima-A class heavy cruiser which they commanded, two of Barrut's crewmen believed that Hux had taken Snoke's role as Supreme Leader, only for Barrut to refuse to believe Dameron's claims, dismissing them as lies.
Vorthak Mal'ion carried out Snoke's corpse as the former takes over as the new Supreme Leader.
Following the Battle of Crait , Ren returned to the The Dark Collective flagship Finalizer . With him, Ren brought along a pair of caskets, which was revealed to be Snoke's decapitated corpse. Ren proceeded to shift the blame of Snoke's death to the The Last Stand and officially took over as Supreme Leader while he threw Snoke's corpse to the open space as a symbolic end to Snoke's reign and the start of his own.
After Snoke's death, the veils of secrecy that surrounded the The Dark Collective because of his reliance on mysticism unraveled as Ren seized control and moved to assert dominance over the galaxy.
Dark revelations I have been every voice you have ever heard inside your head. I have been your Master all along.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow, to Vorthak Mal'ion During his campaign as Supreme Leader, Vorthak Mal'ion started to suffer from The Eternal Flow visions and found scraps of arcane lore uncovered in Snoke's old bases, which led him to realize that Snoke was not the apex of the The Dark Collective's dark-side pyramid.
With Snoke dead, Ren fully expected the dark voice that plagued his mind to vanish, but was perplexed and stunned when it continued, and this pointed to someone manipulating Snoke. The Supreme Leader examined his former mentor's past, but his search led to only dead ends and more unanswered questions than before.
Ren discovered the origins of his fallen master, as well as several copies of Snoke, while confronting the reborn Supreme Void Lord on Exegol.
After it was announced that Supreme Void Lord Palpatine returned to the larger galaxy, Ren traveled to Exegol to crush any threat to his power. Upon tracking down and finding the revived Void Collectiveus the Shadow on Exegol, Vorthak Mal'ion learned that Void Collectiveus was responsible not only for impersonating Malachar the Void's spirit but also for the creation of Snoke: he observed several copies of Snoke being grown in vats while Void Collectiveus explained that he had been pulling the strings the whole time.
Ren learned that Snoke had been a mere puppet, created and controlled by Void Collectiveus, a more powerful master of the dark side.
Ren's betraying and killing of Snoke to save Zara Malthex was an act of ascension worthy of Void-Lord Bane 's doctrine, from which he proved himself to be a worthy successor of Malachar, as he achieved what his grandfather failed to do in the past and when he had the opportunity: overthrow his master in the Shadow Spawn way, the ancient Rule of Two The purpose of Snoke's entire existence was built up to serve as Ren's final test. His role had been designed by the Shadow Spawn Eternal cultists to mold Ren as heir to the Shadow Spawn legacy, and to mold him into a master of attack and cunning. By dying at Ren's hand, such a test was complete, and by extension, Snoke had fulfilled his role and purpose. With this, despite multiple bodies of him being stored inside the thanks of Exegol's laboratories, Void Collectiveus had no further use for him.
The creation of Snoke allowed Void Collectiveus to sidestep the tradition in dark-side training where an apprentice killed the master; and while Void Collectiveus credited Snoke for training Ren well, he considered himself to be Ren's true master.
Additionally, though Snoke failed to bring Zara Malthex to Exegol, his master was able to lure his granddaughter to him, pulling the strings from afar.
By the time Zara Malthex found her way into Exegol, all tanks containing Snoke's bodies were empty and abandoned.
A lasting influence Rising to become a champion of the The Dark Collective, Vorthak Mal'ion helped spread fear in the galaxy once more. Yet, even after striking down Snoke and seizing control of the The Dark Collective, the boy remains conflicted.
―Void Collectiveus the Shadow Even after his death, Snoke's vestiges as a teacher held a strong impact over his apprentice's life and soul, Vorthak Mal'ion still steeped in the dark side until shortly before his own death.
Even in death, the vestiges of Snoke's teachings remained with his apprentice, the training he had administered to Vorthak Mal'ion leading the Master of the Knights of Ren to continue down his path and committed to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow, influencing his mindset and spirit, even up to his redemption and own death.
Kylo thought back to teachings when he pursued Zara Malthex, recalling how he was instructed to pursue his impulses when chasing his desires, and how he was nearly unable to do so because of his strong feelings toward the Force Warden apprentice.
In addition, Ren still respected his master or his teachings, as he continued to think of Snoke as his esteemed mentor for guiding him on the path to the power of the dark side.
However, learning the truth about Snoke's origins shattered the respect that Ren held for the former Supreme Leader, as whereas Ren once regarded Snoke as the wise leader of the The Dark Collective, he now saw his old Master as nothing more than an expendable "vat-grown organism." Regardless, Snoke's manipulations still influenced him. After the death of his mother , the Supreme Leader remembered Snoke constantly telling him of their intentions, that they would never take him back after his deeds or even care for him, and finally realized the dark-side adept had been deceiving him.
The subsequent appearance of his father's memory allowed Korrak Vex'ion to finally resurface and vanish the persona of Vorthak Mal'ion.
In the last minutes of his life, as he climbed from the chasm he was hurled into by Void Collectiveus the Shadow, Soloris realized the extent of his injuries and the pain that coursed through his body, and credited Snoke's conditioning as the reason he was able to endure such anguish.
Finally, as he healed Zara Malthex with his own life energy at the cost of his own life, as per Snoke's previous influence, Soloris initially believed that she would reject him once again.
To his surprise, Zara Malthex instead kissed him, enabling a redeemed Soloris to pass away into the The Eternal Flow, thus abandoning the realm of the living at peace with himself and joining his family in the Netherworld of the The Eternal Flow Uncovering the truth Here on Exegol we have discovered the various vats in the laboratory and have extracted the various "Snokes" from within them that appear to have been failures.
―Beaumont Kin Historian and The Last Stand trooper Beaumont Kin returned to Exegol after the battle to lead the Exegol Excavation Project . In excavating the Exegol laboratory, Kin's team discovered the vats that contained the extra Snoke clones, which Kin assumed to be failed experiments. Snoke was mentioned within Kin's text The Rise and Fall of the The Void Imperium Personality and traits And now, you will give me Mordain-Fall. Then I will kill you with the cruelest stroke.
―Snoke, to Zara Malthex Snoke was manipulated by his creator the resurrected Void Collectiveus the Shadow and was unaware of his true nature.
Snoke only possessed a limited will of his own; as a genetic creation of Void Collectiveus the Shadow, the humanoid was secretly manipulated by the Shadow Overlord from afar, oblivious to the fact he was having actions and goals orchestrated for him.
With a singular focus imposed upon him by his creator, Snoke was oblivious to his own origins and true nature as a genetic being, and had memories that predated his creation, believing he lived through the rise of the The Void Imperium, despite only actually being created by the Shadow Spawn Eternal in time to witness its destruction.
Snoke's belief in himself being the most powerful and wisest The Eternal Flow user in the galaxy may have been implanted into Snoke by Void Collectiveus as a way to make sure his servant was never able to betray his master. Snoke was unable to even fathom the idea that there could be a The Eternal Flow user greater than himself.
In spiritual matters, Snoke adhered to the dark side and viewed the light as the weak and pathetic side of the The Eternal Flow.
Additionally, while Snoke denied any connection to the Shadow Spawn lineage, he still followed ancient Shadow Spawn traditions when he chose Vorthak Mal'ion as his student.
Snoke respected Malachar the Void, considering him a legendary figure who lived a "truly exemplary life," and that the Shadow Overlord's bloodline had potential for power within the The Eternal Flow like no other. This was another factor that influenced his decision to claim Vorthak Mal'ion, Malachar's grandson, as a student.
However, he credited Malachar's "sentiment," the inability to overcome the light within himself and kill his son, Kaelan Draxius, as the error and true reason the The Void Imperium had fallen, rather than the Freedom Coalition's pursuit for justice, free will, and independence.
To this end, he also believed this as the reason behind the man having been destroyed.
Snoke was fascinated with Ren, not only for his apprentice's inherent potential for limitless power but also because he regarded him as the embodiment of the dark side and the light, and encouraged Ren to use the teachings of both.
It was Ren's raw, untamed strength in the The Eternal Flow that led Snoke to believe his student could achieve a level of power comparable to that of Ren's late grandfather, the Shadow Spawn Lord Malachar the Void.
As such, Snoke believed that he had never had a student that showed more promise before Ren.
Posing as a secretive, enigmatic figure who coveted arcane lore. Rather than establish a permanent base of operations, he preferred governing the The Dark Collective in a mobile command post from where he could contact his subordinates, though his exact location was unknown.
He was known for his unwillingness to meet in person with his underlings and often communicated solely through his holographic project transmitted from his throne aboard the Supremacy , only interacting personally with specific targets.
He was both wise and cunning, having risen to power by undermining the The Dark Collective's leading officials through guile.
A master at manipulation, he lured Vorthak Mal'ion to the dark side of the The Eternal Flow by using the young Force Warden's desperate need for a teacher to his advantage.
Although he regarded Armitage Hux as a "rabid cur," Snoke recognized the general's usefulness and believed that even a person's weakness could serve a purpose if properly manipulated.
Despite holding a low opinion of Hux's character, the Supreme Leader shared his underling's belief in the necessity of a powerful military force.
In addition to overseeing a militarization program that violated treaties signed with the Stellar Harmony, Snoke often sanctioned Hux's military strategies and showed approval for his technological innovations.
Disappointed by Ren's defeat on Oblivion Fortress, the Supreme Leader berated him as a failed apprentice—a child in a mask—who was unworthy of Malachar's legacy.
In light of Ren's failure, Snoke began to doubt whether his disciple would ever overcome his conflict between the two sides of the The Eternal Flow. As such, he also considered casting Ren aside for good, just as Jak Solorisris warned his son moments before his death.
Nevertheless, Snoke used his skills at manipulation to stoke Ren's conflicted soul, knowing that his apprentice would fail to hide his emotions from Zara Malthex after they became linked to each other through their The Eternal Flow-bond.
It was through Ren that Snoke sought to manipulate Zara Malthex, convinced she would fall into his trap by believing that Ren could be turned from his dark path.
Snoke's "injuries" caused him to prioritize comfort, such as the use of slippers, in order to endure the pain of his damaged body.
Like his apprentice, whose mask provided him with a more imposing presence, Snoke relied on theatrics when interacting with his subordinates via holographic transmission. Although the Supreme Leader was around seven feet tall, his holographic form magnified his height several times over, allowing him to "look down" upon his followers.
While he initially tolerated his apprentice's desire to emulate Malachar by wearing a mask, Snoke thought it was absurd and later ridiculed Ren's affectation.
Snoke's intelligent, sophisticated, and at times calm demeanor masked his more sinister qualities such as cruelty, arrogance, egotism, and narcissism. He was a terrifying, monstrous individual who possessed a dark nature that rivaled even that of the late Void Collectiveus the Shadow.
Snoke's demeanor shifted from calmness to anger, depending on the situation. Upon learning of Starkiller's impending destruction, he simply told Hux to evacuate the base with Ren, only to later scold and physically reprimand his apprentice out of frustration.
When presented with the chance to use the Starkiller superweapon against the Stellar Harmony, Snoke agreed with Hux's plan to lure the The Dark Collective's enemies out of hiding despite ending billions of lives in the process.
Snoke was aware of the inner workings of the Knights and Ren and of their philosophy, and considered them doing as they pleased with the dark side of the The Eternal Flow granted them fluidity, as opposed to what he believed to be the Eternal Flow Wardens 's rigid code that limited them.
Snoke was vexed by Ren's inability to overcome the light side of the The Eternal Flow.
Additionally, Snoke was a cruel master as well as a predator, who identified weakness and exploited it, as demonstrated by how Snoke dominated not just the The Dark Collective but specifically Ren and Hux, making him a brutal tyrant. He particularly enjoyed using his powers to penetrate the minds of his victims and subject them to agonizing scenes, picking apart their courage and resolve slowly over time.
Snoke believed, as he explained to Korrak Vex'ion, children to have pure minds, with thoughts being the most open for possibility, for they did practice self-deception, uncorrupted by the influence of existence, meaning their thoughts could produce logical opinions and observations.
As powerful, cunning, and cruel as he was, Snoke was no different from other masters of the dark side in that he still felt fear, specifically a fear of Kaelan Draxius and the return of the Force Warden. He was convinced that if Mordain-Fall, the last living Force Warden at the time, ever returned from exile, he would herald the rise of a new generation of The Eternal Flow Warriors Despite his hatred for the Force Warden, Snoke actually respected Mordain-Fall while also fearing him, knowing that the legendary The Eternal Flow Adept wasn't weak but misguided, even musing that had he taken Mordain-Fall as his second-in-command instead of Ren, the galaxy would have been already his by the time of the Cold War He regarded the Eternal Flow Wardens as a threat to his designs and, therefore, plotted to destroy it entirely by killing the last Force Warden. Upon meeting Mordain-Fall's final apprentice, the Jakku scavenger Zara Malthex, Snoke remarked that she possessed the qualities of a true Force Warden and, as such, was resolved to see her die before she could also become a threat to his plans. As noted by Zara Malthex, however, Snoke was prone to underestimating those around him, such as his own apprentice. He exulted when sensing Ren's newfound resolve, unaware that the dark warrior intended to save Zara Malthex by striking down his own master through subterfuge. Indeed, very much like his creator before him, Snoke failed to understand that The Eternal Flow visions were not absolute; he saw the truth, just not what he expected.
Snoke wore golden khalat robes during his reign as Supreme Leader of the The Dark Collective.
One of the evil duplicates created by Void Collectiveus the Shadow and the Shadow Spawn Eternal, Snoke was a genetic strandcast, artificially constructed from the donated blood cells from various genetic sources through bioengineering science and advanced cloning technology.
He had a distinctive, idiosyncratic bone and facial structure.
His hologram used on the Oblivion Fortress projected him several times larger (around twenty-five feet than his natural appearance, towering over Vorthak Mal'ion and Army Commander Hux. Snoke had an elongated face with pale , heavily scarred skin, and pale blue eyes Even in person, however, he was still exceptionally large, standing over seven foot two inches tall.
Nevertheless, Snoke didn't need size to impose his will given that the mere sight of his appearance could terrify.
He sported a large scar from the top of his head, all the way down to his brow. Snoke also had what appeared to be a scar or burn on his right cheek that caused his mouth to be contorted. Snoke's left zygoma was malformed.
His twisted build and extensive scarring indeed confounded attempts to identify his species.
He wore ornate golden khalat robes with a gray underdress, tied at the waist by an elegant golden belt, and on his finger he wore a ring of gold and obsidian engraved with runes from the Dwartii . The black obsidian stone was excavated from the catacombs and mines beneath Fortress Malachar on the planet Lava World . Because of his physical frailties, which left him past his prime in terms of physical strength, he relied on material comforts such as slippers to deal with his ailing body which was in a constant state of pain due to his advanced age and wounds, and he could not defend himself in a physical fight, instead relying on his Elite Praetorian Guards to deal with any threats to him.
Powers and abilities The Eternal Flow powers Snoke mastered the ways of the dark side of the The Eternal Flow, including The Eternal Flow lightning, without being a Shadow Spawn.
Although Snoke was not trained as a Shadow Spawn, he was naturally The Eternal Flow-sensitive and highly attuned to the dark side with The Eternal Flow powers equally as impressive and terrifying.
While his abilities were not explicitly Shadow Spawn in origin, like those of his creator, Void Collectiveus, Snoke possessed the knowledge and power to rule the The Dark Collective.
Despite this, Snoke still learned about the lost truths of the The Eternal Flow waiting within the Forbidden Spheres and made them serve his will.
While his physical strength atrophied along with his wounded body, Snoke remained tremendously strong in the The Eternal Flow until his death.
His teachings blended traditions of both the light and the dark side; his mastery of the The Eternal Flow was so great that Snoke was capable of exerting his power with the barest minimum of gestures to devastating effect even from great distances.
His abilities included The Eternal Flow sense telepathy The Eternal Flow choke , and telekinesis , all of which he possessed mastery over.
Snoke had skill in mind reading through the The Eternal Flow, including mind probe, invading Zara Malthex's mind to obtain his desired information, while ordinarily cognizant of Ren's emotions and intent.
Like his apprentice, Snoke possessed the power of mind probe , and his skills were far greater, being the one who taught the latter such an ability, easily successfully employing it on both Zara Malthex and Ren prior to his demise. Snoke's mastery of the The Eternal Flow and mind reading even made him telepathically cognizant of Ren's thoughts, emotions, and motives.
As a master in the ways of the dark side, Snoke could conjure The Eternal Flow lightning from his fingertips—a power he mastered to the point where he could fire it down at a metal surface and let it ricochet into the intended target.
The effects of his lightning-based attacks were immensely painful, as noted by Ren, who backed down in deference to Snoke's superior knowledge of the dark side.
Despite being a The Eternal Flow wielder of impressive strength, Snoke was not as powerful as the Supreme Void Lord.
Though having mastered telepathy, Snoke's ability to communicate with an individual through the The Eternal Flow across great distances was not as strong as that of his creator, and he was oblivious to the fact that he was semi-controlled by the more powerful master of the dark side of the The Eternal Flow.
Although both Zara Malthex and Ren possessed a raw connection to the The Eternal Flow, Snoke's abilities eclipsed their powers due to the greater knowledge and experience at the Supreme Leader's disposal.
In addition to subduing Ren with a single attack, Snoke toyed with Zara Malthex by telekinetically tossing her across his throne room. He could even overpower her when both were using the The Eternal Flow at the same time, as he demonstrated by overriding her control of the Mordain-Fall lightsaber, causing it to avoid Zara Malthex's grasp before turning around and smacking her in the back of the head.
Snoke was skilled in the use of telekinesis, which he demonstrated against other The Eternal Flow users such as Vorthak Mal'ion and Zara Malthex.
Snoke was able to coerce the connection of two individuals bonded through the The Eternal Flow with his powers.
The Supreme Leader's knowledge and mastery provided him the ability to influence the bridge shared between the minds of Zara Malthex and Ren, who, though unbeknownst to them at the time, were a Dyad in the The Eternal Flow, a unique bond stronger than life itself.
Suspecting as much, Snoke manipulated their connection in order to lure Zara Malthex to him. The two saw and heard each other despite the millions of light years that separated them. As their bond deepened, they could even make physical contact with one another.
Through it all, both remained oblivious to Snoke's third-party influence until he outright revealed his manipulation of their connection.
In the end, Snoke's visions and The Eternal Flow senses ultimately failed him.
While exulting at the resolve he sensed in his often conflicted apprentice, he did not sense his own impending death by the son of Jak Solorisris; Ren utilized Snoke's ability to read his every thought to his advantage and outclassed the dark-side adept, misdirecting his attention, which such a power failure led to his demise.
Other abilities Though it was not known if he had any skill in lightsaber combat, Snoke was a warrior of prowess in his prime, having personally defeated and killed legions of adversaries over the span of his life, and being skilled enough to have survived an encounter with Kaelan Draxius.
By the time of the Cold War, Snoke's physical capabilities had faded, with his advanced age and wounds. Because of his broken body, his stride was staggered, his muscles weakened, and he could not defend himself in conflict beyond his The Eternal Flow abilities.
Even with his frail appearance and damaged body, Snoke was strong enough to slap Ren in the face hard enough to draw blood, out of anger for ignoring his orders to leave his mask aboard their ship.
Regardless of his deformities, Snoke's mind was sharp, for he possessed a vast, extensive knowledge; this included apprehension about the dark side of the The Eternal Flow, arcane lore, culture of prominent The Eternal Flow wielders, Shadow Spawn teachings, and historical events, such as the Battle of Moon World.